=== Preamble ===
--- Page 1 ---
1 1n
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
Ref: 15/8/1
C7/2014
2014-10-15
To all banks, branches of foreign institutions, controlling companies, eligible
institutions and auditors of banks or controlling companies
Circular 7/2014 issued in terms of section 6(4) of the Banks Act, 1990
External auditors of newly acquired or established entities
Executive summary
The Office of the Registrar of Banks (this Office) periodically reviews the conditions
attached to approvals granted by it in terms of section 52 of the Banks Act, 1990
(Act No. 94 of 1990 — the Banks Act). Most recently this Office reviewed the
condition that the external auditors of a newly established or acquired subsidiary
need to be the same as those of the group. Following due consideration of the
matter, this Office concluded that the condition should be amended. This circular
informs banks, controlling companies and branches of foreign institutions
(hereinafter collectively referred to as banks) of the approach that will be followed
by this Office in future to consider applications received in this regard.

=== Introduction ===
1.1 In accordance with the provisions of section 90(1) of the Companies Act, 2008
(Act No. 71 of 2008 — the Companies Act), a public or state-owned company is
required to appoint an auditor upon its incorporation, and each year at its annual
general meeting.
1.2 Furthermore, in accordance with the provisions of section 90(2)(c) of the Companies
Act, in order for an auditor to be appointed as a company’s auditor, the company’s
audit committee must be comfortable with the proposed auditor's independence.
1.3 The responsibility regarding the actual appointment of the external auditors therefore
vests with the relevant company.
1.4 This Office has been approached by various persons who raised concerns regarding
the section 52 approval condition imposed requiring the external auditors of the
newly established or acquired subsidiary to be the same as those of the group.
1.5 According to International Standard on Auditing (ISA) 600, should the external
auditors of the holding company be different to those of an individual entity, the audit
firm responsible for the reporting on the financial statements of the holding company
(principal auditors) may still make use of the services of another audit firm.
1.6 Furthermore, ISA 600 also states that the engagement partner needs to be satisfied
that component auditors’ have the necessary competence.
! According to ISA 600, a component auditor is defined as an auditor who, at the request of the group engagement team,
performs work on financial information related to a component of the group audit.
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001 © 370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria 0002 . South Africa . Tei +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272 . Fax +27 12 3133758 B www.reservebank.co.za
--- Page 2 ---
2
1.7 A component may take the form of a division, branch, subsidiary, joint venture,
associated company or other entity whose financial information is included in the
financial statements audited by the principal auditor. However, ultimately the group
engagement partner remains responsible for the performance of the audit.
1.8 Taking into account ISA 600, the group’s auditors may still make use of other audit
firms’ expertise should they wish to do so.

=== Auditors of newly established or acquired entities as per section 52 of the ===
Banks Act, 1990
2.1 According to section 52(1)(a) of the Banks Act, a bank shall not without the prior
written approval of the Registrar of Banks establish a subsidiary or create a division
in the manner prescribed within or outside the Republic of South Africa (the Republic)
or enter into an agreement having the effect that any company becomes its
subsidiary or such division within or outside the Republic.
2.2 One of the governance conditions currently imposed as part of a section 52
application approval is that the auditors of the newly acquired or established entity
should be the same as those of the group.
2.3 This Office periodically reviews the conditions attached to approvals granted by it in
terms of section 52 of the Banks Act. Accordingly, this Office recently reviewed the
condition that the external auditors of a newly established or acquired subsidiary
need to be the same as those of the group.
2.4 In view of the above, this Office has decided that should the newly established or
acquired entity want to appoint different auditors to those of the group, such requests
will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
2.5 To allow this Office to make an informed decision regarding the proposed auditors of
the newly established or acquired entity, the group should for all future applications
submit, together with the section 52 application a motivation detailing the reasoning
behind the appointment of the proposed auditors.
2.6 This circular can also be applied retrospectively in respect of small- and medium-
sized audit firms that performed audits for entities prior to such entities being
acquired by banks as subsidiaries. However, the discretion to reappoint such audit
firms vests solely with the relevant bank, and formal requests in this regard are to be
submitted to this Office for prior approval.

=== Acknowledgement of receipt ===
3.1 Two additional copies of this circular are enclosed for the use of your institution's
independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt, duly completed and
signed by both the chief executive officer and the said auditors, must be returned to
ya at the earliest convenience of the aforementioned signatories.
René van Wyk
Registrar of Banks
The previous circular issued was Banks Act Circular 6/2014, dated 2 June 2014.
