--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
G4/2014
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001
2014-02-18
To banks, branches of foreign institutions, controlling companies, eligible
institutions and auditors of banks or controlling companies
Guidance Note 4/2014 issued in terms of section 6(5) of the Banks Act, 1990
Application process in respect of the proposed adoption of the internal ratings-
based approach for the measurement of banks' credit risk exposure in respect of
positions held in the banking book
Executive summary
In terms of regulation 23(10)(a) of the Regulations relating to Banks (the
Regulations), banks are required to obtain the prior written approval of the
Registrar of Banks to adopt the foundation internal ratings-based (IRB) approach
or the advanced IRB approach (jointly referred to as the 'advanced approaches')
for the measurement of their exposure to credit risk in respect of positions held in
the banking book.
The purpose of this guidance note is to inform all banks, controlling companies
and branches of foreign institutions (hereinafter collectively referred to as 'banks')
of the process to be followed and the information required to be submitted when
applying to use the advanced approaches.
This Guidance Note replaces Guidance Note 4/2010, issued 25 June 2010, and
requires additional information and documentation
to be included in the IRB
application pack.
1. Guidance on submitting an internal ratings-based approach application
1.1 All banks intending to adopt the advanced approaches are required to submit a duly
completed IRB application pack, attached as Annexure A. This would include the
information as required in the various sections of the application pack and duly
completed declarations signed by the bank's chief executive officer and chairperson
of the board of directors.
1.2
Banks should make provision for a period of up to 18 months between submitting a
completed IRB application pack and approval being granted or denied. Applicant
banks will also be required, once advised by this Office, to perform a BA return
reporting parallel run for a period of 6 months during the above-mentioned
application period of 18 months as described in Annexure A.
370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria C002
South Africa
Tel +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272
Fax +27 12 3133758
www.reservebank.co.za

--- Page 2 ---
2
2.
Acknowledgement of receipt
Two additional copies of this guidance note are enclosed for use by your
institution's independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt, duly
completed and signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution and the
said auditors, should be returned to this Office at the earliest convenience of the
aforementioned signatories.
René van Wyk
Registrar of Banks
Encl. 2
The previous guidance note issued was Guidance Note 3/2014, dated 13 February 2014.

--- Page 3 ---
Annexure A
Application to adopt the internal ratings-based approach for the measurement of
credit risk exposure in respect of positions held in the banking book (IRB
application)
Februarv
1 2014

--- Page 4 ---
General information on the IRB application
1. The Regulations relating to Banks (the Regulations) stipulate several approaches
available to banks, controlling companies and branches of foreign institutions
(hereafter referred to as 'banks') for calculating the minimum required amount of
Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital and reserve funds
relating to banks' exposure to credit risk. Banks are required to obtain the prior
written approval of the Registrar of Banks to adopt the foundation IRB approach
and/or the advanced IRB approach (jointly referred to as the 'advanced approaches)
for calculating exposure to credit risk in respect of positions held in the banking
book.
2. Banks should make provision for a period of up to 18 months between submitting a
completed IRB application pack and approval being granted or denied.
3. All banks applying to adopt the advanced approaches will be required, once advised
by this Office, to undertake a parallel reporting run for a minimum of six months for
the affected portfolios prior to using such approaches in capital calculations. This
parallel run period will be performed during the above-mentioned 18 month
application period. The aim of the parallel run is to give both the applicant bank and
the Bank Supervision Department (BSD) comfort that the applicant bank has tested
its systems for management and regulatory reporting purposes, and will be able to
successfully use them for capital calculations by the end of the parallel run period.
The capital impact of the models will also be monitored and assessed by BSD during
the parallel run period. The parallel run submissions are in addition to the regular
BA returns submitted by banks and applicant banks should therefore liaise with BSD
for arrangements with regard to the parallel run submission process.
4. The IRB application process consists of two stages. The first stage requires the
applicant bank to complete the IRB application pack, which provides summary
information on its plans for IRB implementation and its approach to a number of key
areas such as governance and the use of internal ratings. The second stage
requires BSD to carry out an on-site focused review at the bank to assess areas
identified for follow-up (during the review of the IRB application pack submitted) to
determine whether the applicant bank will be able to meet the minimum
requirements. BSD is likely to request further detailed information if deemed
necessary.
5. Banks are expected to be in a reasonable state of readiness when they apply for
approval to adopt the advanced approaches, which would include having a clear and
realistic roll-out plan covering the material portfolios for inclusion in the advanced
approaches. BSD will rely on preparatory work undertaken by the banks themselves,
with a key element in this regard being the involvement of senior management in the
approach being considered, including the requirement for the information submitted
by banks being signed off by the applicant bank's chief executive officer.
6. When compiling information requested in the sections below, banks should provide
concise responses. Where necessary, applicant banks may refer to supporting
documentation, which BSD can request during stage two of the IRB application
process. The primary aim of the information is to enable BSD to determine the scope
of its supervisory review work in respect of assessing a bank's IRB application (as
part of stage two of the application) and the bank should bear this in mind when
formulating its application.
Page 2 of 7

--- Page 5 ---
Information to be provided by a bank, controlling company or branch of a foreign
institution
Section A: General overview of application
1. Overview of IRB implementation plan and key milestones, including an overview of
the external expertise or internal expertise used within the group.
2. A summary of why the bank is applying for use of the advanced approaches and
what it aims to achieve as a consequence.
3. Overview of the group and legal entity structure.
Scope of the application, setting out the approaches being applied for, including
the business lines, portfolios and legal entities (mapped to the different asset
classes per the form BA 200) to which the approach will apply.
5. Detail of portfolios for which the bank wishes to apply for any permanent
exemptions.
Section B: Corporate governance and oversight
6. I
Review
of governance of the IRB implementation process including a brief
overview of how it fits into the governance process at a group level):
6.1 Description of the governance process.
6.2 Model development and maintenance.
6.3 Independent validation, including a motivation for structural independence and
appropriate incentive structure.
7. Copy of the board-approved credit policy and a description of future changes
planned.
8. Copies of the board-approved model validation, development and monitoring
policies, where relevant.
Section C: Internal ratings-based approaches self-assessment
9. Complete and submit schedules 1, 2 and 3 of the self-assessment (refer to
http://www.reservebank.co.za> Regulation and supervision> Bank Supervision>
International standards> Internal ratings-based approaches: Application process
and Self-assessment and long-form review templates).
Page 3 of 7

--- Page 6 ---
Section D: Rating and risk estimation systems
10. Complete Annexure B for each model that will be used for the IRB approach. The
application pack shall include all relevant documentation as described in point 8 of
Annexure B
11. Complete and submit a Credit Risk Rating System Register (refer to
http://www.reservebank.co.za> Regulation and supervision> Bank Supervision>
International standards> Internal ratings-based approaches: Application process
and Self-assessment and long-form review templates).
12. The process followed in tailoring the models for the South African environment and
the branch management's input into the development of the models.
13. Description of how the bank meets the experience requirement, elaborating on the
time that the rating/scoring systems have been in operation.
14. Summary of the level of compliance with the use test requirements, specifically
describing how the rating systems form an integral part of:
14.1 Credit approval.
14.2 Reporting of credit risk information: description of reports produced using data of
the model.
14.3 Risk management and internal capital allocation process.
15. Outline the differences, if any, between the parameter estimates used for
regulatory capital purposes and those for internal purposes.
Section E: Stress testing
16.
Description of the bank's approach to credit risk stress testing. In particular,
describe the level of compliance with the requirements specified in regulation
23(11)(b)(ix) of the Regulations.
Section F: Technological environment, data maintenance and regulatory
reporting requirements
17. Description of the bank's approach to data management, with reference to the
applications used to store information relating to the rating system, the estimated
parameters and any other relevant aspect. In particular, describe the level of
compliance with the requirements specified in regulation 23(11) (b)(viii) of the
Regulations.
18. The process followed to obtain calibration databases and regulatory capital
figures, including an overview of the regulatory reporting system and whether the
bank would be in a position to complete and submit the risk-based returns within
the periods specified in regulation 7 of the Regulations.
Page 4 of 7

--- Page 7 ---
Section G: Independent validation
19. Description of the bank's approach to validation, with reference to:
19.1 Back testing. Analysis of the differences between the parameter estimates (PD,
LGD and EAD) and the realised default rates, loss severities and EAD amounts.
19.2 Performance monitoring. Description of tests used to validate the accuracy,
stability, discriminatory power and calibration of the rating systems.
19.3 Benchmarking. Comparison of parameter estimates across banks and/or external
benchmarks.
20. Staffing of validation unit, including approved vacancies and skillset.
Section H: Declaration by the Chief Executive Officer (attached)
Section I: Declaration by the Chairperson of the Board of Directors (attached)
Note: Please supply responses to this questionnaire and supporting documentation
either electronically to SARB-BANKSUP@resbank.co.za or via hard medium such as
CD or memory stick.
Page 5 of 7

--- Page 8 ---
Section H: Declaration by the Chief Executive Officer
Declaration constituting the formal application for approval for use of the IRB
approach in respect of credit risk exposures for purposes of determining the
minimum required regulatory capital to be held
1, the undersigned, hereby declare that I have carefully worked through the content
of the information that is being submitted as part of the application for permission
to use the IRB approach to calculate minimum required capital and reserve funds
relating to credit risk
I declare that this information is correct, complete, accurate and truthful and
presents a true picture of the situation at ...
(name of bank) on the basis of which BSD can form an appropriately informed
judgement on the application.
• I undertake to notify BSD immediately if there is a significant change to the
information given in the application pack. I hereby also acknowledge that if I fail to
do so, this may result in a delay in the application process.
Signed at...
year)
this..... day of
(month and
....
Signature: Chief Executive Officer
Page 6 of 7

--- Page 9 ---
Section I: Declaration by the Chairperson of the Board of Directors
Declaration constituting the formal application for approval for use of the IRB
approach in respect of credit risk exposures for purposes of determining the
minimum required regulatory capital to be held
• I sign this application on behalf of every legal entity making the application.
• I confirm that the information submitted in the application pack represents a true
and fair view, to the best of my knowledge and belief, and that I have taken all
reasonable steps to ensure that this is the case.
• I confirm that I am aware that it is an offence to provide BSD, knowingly or not,
with information that is false or misleading.
• give consent to make the records that demonstrate (name of bank's) compliance
with the IRB minimum requirements available to BSD upon its request.
I confirm that I give consent for any information provided in relation to this
application to be shared with other local and/or international regulators at BSD's
discretion.
Signed at.
year)
this.......
....day of
(month and
Signature: Chairperson of the Board of Directors
Page 7 of 7

--- Page 10 ---
Annexure B: Summary of model to be used for internal ratings-based approach
Table 1: Summary information
1. Bank name
Rating system
Name:
Unique number:
Type (PD, LGD, EAD):
6.
7.
Brief description of model
methodology
Model weaknesses and
limitations: description of any
known weaknesses of the models
and anticipated timetable for
remedying or improving them
Portfolio(s)/business units
covered by the rating system
Asset class(es) affected by the
rating system
Relevant committee approval
8.
Supporting documentation for
rating system
Committee:
Date:
Development documentation
Validation documentation
Documentation presented to approval
committee
Approval committee minutes
Other supplementary material
Page 1 of 2

--- Page 11 ---
Table 2: Parameter estimates and capital information
As at:'
Exposure
(R'm)
EAD
(R'm)
EAD weighted PD
(%)
Point in
time
Long
Run
Average
EAD weighted LGD
(%)
Downturn
Long
Run
Average
Expected
loss
(R'm)
Risk
weighted
assets (R'm)?
Capital
requirement
(R'm)?
Performing loans
Non-performing
loans
' This table needs to be completed when the IRB application pack is submitted and for every month of the parallel-run reporting period
2 Scalar of 1.06 should be included within the risk weighted assets (RWA)
Calculated using RWA x minimum required capital percentage + expected losses
4 Non-performing loans i.e. exposures that are in default as defined in Regulation 67
Page 2 of 2