=== Preamble ===
--- Page 1 ---
|
N
4
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
Ref: 15/8/1
C7/2016
2016-11-24
To banks, branches of foreign institutions, controlling companies, eligible
institutions and auditors of banks or controlling companies
Circular 7/2016 issued in terms of section 6(4) of the Banks Act 94 of 1990
Matters related to specified minority interests, that is, non-controlling interests, in
shares and/or instruments qualifying as capital
Executive summary
On 1 January 2008, 1 January 2012 and 1 January 2013, South Africa implemented
amended Regulations relating to Banks (Regulations) which incorporated, among
other things, the minimum requirements set out in internationally agreed
frameworks and standards issued by standard-setting bodies such as the Financial
Stability Board and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel
Committee). The amended Regulations issued on the above-mentioned three dates
included the requirements specified in the Basel ll, Basel 2.5 and the Basel lll
frameworks respectively.
In order to ensure that the legal framework for the regulation and supervision of
banks and banking groups in South Africa remains relevant and current, the Bank
Supervision Department (BSD) of the South African Reserve Bank continuously
reviews its legal framework to ensure that the framework appropriately reflects local
and international market developments, and complies with ever-evolving
international regulatory and supervisory standards, and best practices.
Furthermore, as a member of the Basel Committee, the legal framework in terms of
which the BSD regulates and supervises banks and banking groups is subject to
ongoing international assessments and reviews, which include matters related to
completeness and comparability. Any identified area of incompleteness or non-
comparability results in the implementation of an appropriate amendment. This
circular accordingly specifies such an area of the legal framework requiring
amendment.
The Office of the Registrar of Banks (this Office) hereby informs all relevant persons
of matters related to the prescribed treatment for the calculation of surplus capital
relating to minority interests, to determine the portion of minority interests that may
qualify as capital at a consolidated level.
This Circular replaces Circular 3 of 2015, issued in March 2015.
--- Page 2 ---
2

=== Introduction ===
1.1 The Regulations relating to Banks (the Regulations) that became effective on
1 January 2013 contain, among other things, specific requirements related to the
treatment of minority interests arising from the issue of shares or instruments by a
fully consolidated subsidiary of the reporting bank or controlling company
(hereinafter referred to as ‘banks’) qualifying as capital, including specific
requirements related to the surplus capital relating to the subsidiary attributable to
third parties (minority shareholders), which has to be excluded from the relevant
consolidated amount of qualifying capital.
1.2 Regulations 38(14)(a), 38(14)(b) and 38(14)(c) of the Regulations prescribe, among
other things, the manner in which the relevant surplus amounts of common equity
tier 1 capital and related premium (CET1), additional tier 1 capital and related
premium (AT1) and tier 2 capital and related premium (T2) shall be calculated. In
this regard, the capital requirement of the subsidiary shall be based on the relevant
minimum requirement for CET1, AT1 and T2 of the bank for which the consolidation
is performed, plus the relevant capital conservation buffer.
1.3 This Circular replaces Circular 3 of 2015, issued on 26 March 2015. Furthermore,
banks are advised that this Office will continue to monitor international
developments around minority interests qualifying as capital.

=== Relevant minimum requirements relating to minority interests and other ===
matters
2.1 The relevant minimum capital requirement referred to in paragraph 1.2 above for
CET1, AT1 and T2 shall be the relevant South African base minima specified from
time to time, which includes the Pillar 2A requirement but excludes the Pillar 2B or
bank-specific individual capital requirement (ICR) add-on. The capital conservation
buffer, countercyclical buffer and the higher loss absorbency requirements for
domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs) are specifically included in the
relevant minimum requirements, as imposed on the registered controlling company
or registered local bank (please refer to Directive 6 of 2016 for further details in this
regard).
2.2 For the purposes of determining the qualifying capital of subsidiaries, net of
deductions, banks shall include reserve funds and retained earnings in accordance
with the requirements specified in regulation 38(10) of the Regulations.
2.3 Furthermore, the calculation of surplus capital of the subsidiary attributable to third
parties shall be based on the net amount, that is, the amount after any relevant
haircut or limit, for the AT1 and T2 instruments in terms of regulations 38(11)(b) and
38(12) of the Regulations.
2.4 During the transitional phase-in period of the South African base minima and certain
buffer requirements, the relevant percentage referred to in paragraph 2.1 above
shall be the minimum requirements as at 1 January 2019, imposed on the
registered controlling company for purposes of consolidating all subsidiaries of the
registered controlling company, or the minimum requirements as at 1 January 2019,
imposed on the locally registered bank, for purposes of consolidating all the
subsidiaries of the consolidated bank. Changes to the D-SIB and countercyclical
capital requirements shall be applied as and when they are communicated by this
Office.
--- Page 3 ---
3

=== Acknowledgement of receipt ===
3.1 Two additional copies of this circular are enclosed for the use of your institution’s
independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt, duly completed
and signed by both the chief executive officer and the said auditors, must be
returned to this Office at the earliest convenience of the aforementioned signatories.
Aad
Kuben Naidoo
Deputy Governor and Registrar of Banks
Date: elt) re
The previous circular issued was Banks Act Circular 6/2016, dated 24 November 2016.
