--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
Ref.: 15/8/2
G5/2016
2016-06-01
To banks, branches of foreign institutions, controlling companies, eligible
institutions and auditors of banks or controlling companies
Guidance Note 5/2016 issued in terms of section 6(5) of the Banks Act 94 of 1990
Corporate governance principles for banks
Executive summary
The purpose of this guidance note is to bring to the attention of banks,
controlling companies and branches of foreign institutions (hereinafter
collectively referred to as 'banks') (i) the latest supervisory guidance issued by
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) on corporate governance
principles for banks; and (ii) the fact that this Office, as part of its supervisory
review and evaluation process, will review the progress made by banks to
incorporate the principles and
guidance set out in the aforesaid document
issued by the BCBS into their policies, processes and practices.
1.
Background
1.1
Section 60B of the Banks Act 94 of 1990 imposes a duty on the board of
directors and executive officers of a bank to establish and maintain an adequate
and effective process of corporate governance that is consistent with the nature,
complexity and risks inherent in the activities and the business of the bank
concerned.
1.2
In this regard, regulation 39 of the Regulations relating to Banks (the
Regulations) requires banks to establish and maintain a process of sound
corporate governance that (i) is consistent with the nature, complexity and risk
inherent in the bank's on- and off-balance-sheet activities; and (i) responds to
changes in the bank's environment and conditions. This process includes the
maintenance of effective risk and capital management by banks. In order to
achieve the objective of maintaining effective risk and capital management,
banks should have in place relevant risk management processes, practices,
procedures and board-approved policies.
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001
370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria 0002
South Africa Tel +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272
Fax +27 12 3133758
•www.reservebank.co.z

--- Page 2 ---
1.3
2.
2.1
22
2.3
2.4
2
In terms of the provisions of regulation 38(4) of the Regulations, when this
Office is of the opinion that, for example, a bank's policies, processes and
procedures relating to its risk assessment, compensation or remuneration are
inadequate, this Office may require the bank to, inter alia, (i) strengthen its risk
management policies, processes or procedures; (ii) duly align its compensation
or remuneration policies, processes or procedures with its relevant exposure to
risk; or (iii) if deemed necessary, maintain additional capital, calculated in such
a manner and subject to such conditions as may be specified in writing by this
Office.
Documents issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
relating to corporate governance principles for banks
In July 2015, the BCBS released a document relating to guidance on corporate
governance principles for banks and supervisors, namely Guidelines: Corporate
governance principles for banks.' The document sets out, and provides
guidance on, the principles for sound corporate governance and is applicable to
all banks.
This Office is currently in the process of updating its regulatory and supervisory
framework to remain up to date with the latest international best practices,
including the latest developments regarding corporate governance.
As part of its supervisory review and evaluation process, this Office will review
the progress made by banks to incorporate the principles and guidance set out
in the aforesaid document issued by the BCBS into their policies, processes and
practices.
Banks are accordingly requested to assess their current policies, processes and
practices against the principles contained in the aforesaid document, taking into
account the nature, size, complexity and risk profile of their activities. Banks
should accordingly also develop a plan to remedy any deficiencies identified
during the aforesaid assessments.
Acknowledgement of receipt
3.1
Two additional copies of this guidance note are enclosed for use by your
institution's independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt,
duly completed and signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution
and the said auditors, should be returned to this Office at the earliest
convenience of the aforementioned signatories.
Retray
Deputy Registrar of Banks
The previous guidance note issued was Guidance Note 4/2016, dated 6 April 2016.
^ Available at http://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d328.pdf.