Executive summary
The outsourcing of functions or activities that were traditionally executed within
banks, controlling companies or branches of foreign institutions (hereinafter
collectively referred to as banks) has increased substantially in recent years. This
increasing trend in outsourcing arrangements may be due to a variety of reasons,
which may include matters related to a reduction in cost or the achievement of
specific strategic objectives.
Ultimately the board of directors of a bank is responsible for setting the bank's
tolerance for risk and the senior management of the bank has to ensure that all
relevant risk exposures are managed within the risk tolerance level set by the
bank's board of directors, which will, of course, include risks that may arise from
or be related to the outsourcing of specific functions or activities.
Supervisors have to continuously assess and evaluate, among other things, how
well banks are managing and mitigating their respective exposures to risk,
including risks that may arise from outsourcing. For this purpose, supervisors
often require banks to submit specified information within time intervals.
The purpose of this directive is to direct all banks to submit specified information
in respect of their outsourcing arrangements within timelines.
This directive replaces Directive 8/2015 issued on 23 June 2015.
1. Introduction
1.1 This Office previously issued Banks Act Guidance Note 5/2014, titled
Outsourcing of functions within banks'-
1.1.1 to remind banks of the potential risks that may arise from the use of service
providers; and
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001 + 370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria 0002 . South Africa . Tel +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272 . Fax +27 12 3133758 . www.reservebank.co.z

2

1.1.2 to provide guidelines to banks in respect of the assessment and management of
risks pertaining to outsourcing relationships.

1.2 To this end, the definitions as contained in paragraph 2 of GN5/2014 refer.

1.3 In order-

1.3.1 to obtain a better understanding of banks' exposures to risks arising from their
outsourcing arrangements; and

1.3.2 to identify any mutual or common exposure to operational risk or potential
vulnerability within the banking sector, this Office has decided to require banks to
submit specified information in respect of top material outsourced service
providers.

1.4 Despite the fact that banks have no control over critical third-party service
providers, such as Eskom and Telkom, and banks are unable to produce their
own electricity and telecoms lines, this Office still requires specified information in
respect of these critical third party service providers, in order to measure
concentration, exposure and vulnerability. Banks are also required to include
specified information in respect of banking industry service providers, such as
SBV and Bankserv.

2. Directive related to required information

2.1 Based on the aforesaid, and in accordance with the provisions of section 6(6) of
the Banks Act, 1990, banks are hereby directed to submit to this Office the
information specified in Annexure A and Annexure B-

2.1.1 in respect of the twelve-month period that ends on 31 December of each relevant
year, that is, from 31 December 2016, onwards;

2.1.2 which information shall be submitted within 30 business days following the
relevant reporting date to which the information relates; and

2.1.3 which information shall be submitted in respect of the relevant bank on a
consolidated basis, regardless of the level where the contract/s might have been
signed. In the case of a branch of a foreign institution, the information shall
relate only to the relevant branch of the foreign institution conducting business in
the Republic.

2.2 Banks shall use the Excel format of Annexure A and Annexure B, which is
necessary for capturing and submission purposes.

3. Sign-off

3.1 Annexure A and Annexure B shall be signed-off by the chief risk officer of the
bank, and attested by the chief executive officer of the bank.

3

4. Acknowledgement of receipt

4.1 Two additional copies of this directive are enclosed for the use of your
institution's independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt,
duly completed and signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution
and the said auditors, should be returned to this Office at the earliest
convenience of the aforementioned signatories.

Unathi Kamlana

Deputy Registrar of Banks

Encl. 2

The previous directive issued was Directive 7/2016, dated 24 November 2016.
