Executive summary
The use of internal rating systems, including statistical models and mechanical
methods, for the calculation of banks’ and controlling companies’ (hereinafter
referred to as ‘banks’) minimum required capital for credit risk is subject to the
prior written approval of the Registrar of Banks (the Registrar). In turn, such
approval imposes specific duties on the Office of the Registrar (this Office),
including the duty to:
° develop a set of review procedures for ensuring that banks’ systems and
controls are adequate to serve as the basis for capital calculations; and
° focus on compliance with minimum regulatory requirements as a means
of ensuring the overall integrity of a bank’s ability to provide prudential
inputs to the capital calculator.
Among other things, the Regulations relating to Banks (the Regulations) set
out the minimum capital requirements for banks that have adopted the internal
ratings-based (IRB) approach (hereinafter referred to as ‘IRB banks’) for the
measurement of their exposure to credit risk, specifically with respect to rating
systems used for the calculation of minimum required capital.
To enable this Office to discharge its supervisory responsibilities effectively
with respect to the aforesaid rating systems, this directive contains revised
requirements in terms of the approval of material changes to IRB banks’ credit
risk rating systems.
This directive replaces Directive 6/2013 dated 23 May 2013.

2

1. Introduction

14 The approval originally granted to banks to use the IRB approach to calculate
the minimum required capital for credit risk relates only to those internal
rating systems, including statistical models and mechanical methods,
included in the original applications submitted by banks. Any material rating
system changes or developments that fall outside the scope of the approval
granted by this Office are subject to a formal approval process prior to being
implemented.

1.2 This Office issued Directive 6/2013 concerning matters related to changes to
rating systems used for the calculation of minimum required capital for credit
risk. Based on areas of improvement identified during the review process
followed by this Office and feedback received from IRB banks, this Office
decided to refine the requirements of Directive 6/2013 in order to discharge
its supervisory responsibilities more effectively.

1:8 This directive therefore serves to inform banks of these revised requirements,
specifically with regard to cases where the prior written approval of this Office
will be required before a bank may implement changes to its credit risk rating
system.

2. Directive

2.1 IRB banks are required to obtain prior written approval from this Office in
terms of the qualitative and quantitative provisions of paragraphs 2.1.1 to
2.1.3 of this directive that cause a rating system change to be regarded as
material.

2.1.1 The assessment of materiality shall consist of a qualitative base, which shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:

2.1.1.1 the development of a new rating system that is introduced to cater for
instances where no rating system existed previously, for example for new
jurisdictions and portfolios or mergers and acquisitions:

2.1.1.2 migration between approaches, for example from the foundation IRB
approach to the advanced IRB approach;

2.1.1.3 the removal of conservative overlays;'

2.1.1.4 instances where the Regulations require explicit approval, for example for the
assignment of a higher weighting to more recent data in the calculation of the
central tendency;

2.1.1.5 the implementation of a new methodology, for example the development of a
downturn methodology to replace the United States Federal Reserve's
formula in the calculation of the downturn loss given default (LGD);

2.1.1.6 enhancements to the existing methodology, for example the inclusion of
multiple defaults in the LGD calculation; and

2.1.1.7 a change in the definition of default.

' This refers to cases where conservatism was explicitly incorporated as part of the rating system

development due to a lack of reliable historical default and loss experience or weaknesses identified in

the rating system.

3

2.1.2 In addition to the above-listed qualitative factors that may trigger changes to
be classified as material, the following quantitative factors should also be
taken into account when assessing the materiality of the proposed change:

2.1.2.1 a rating system change that results in an absolute? change equal to or
greater than 1 per cent of the total banking group risk-weighted assets
(RWA) relating to credit risk;

2.1.2.2 a rating system change that results in an absolute change equal to or greater
than 10 per cent of the RWA relating to credit risk, for the portfolio(s) covered
by the relevant rating system;

2.1.2.3 the quantitative measure defined in 2.1.2.1 and 2.1.2.2 above shall exclude
all rating system changes where the absolute RWA change is less than
R500 million; and

2.1.2.4 the quantitative measures stipulated in 2.1.2.1 to 2.1.2.3 above shall be
evaluated based on a comparison between the current rating system and the
proposed rating system. Should the changes to the rating system apply to
more than one risk parameter (that is, for probability of default (PD), LGD
and/or exposure at default (EAD)), the evaluation shall be performed
individually for each risk parameter to ascertain whether the proposed
change is material.

21.3 In the event that an IRB bank introduces changes that affect multiple
portfolios, for example a change to the definition of default, instead of
submitting separate applications for each affected portfolio, the IRB bank
shall be required to submit a document outlining the proposed changes as
well as any other relevant information related to the proposed changes. The
information shall include, but not be limited to, the impact on parameter
estimates and regulatory capital for each of the proposed changes for all
affected portfolios.

2.1.4 This Office will assess the changes deemed to be material and will notify the
IRB bank of any objections and/or conditions it may have regarding their
implementation.

2.2 Non-material rating system changes

221 An IRB bank may implement changes deemed to be non-material (not
considered material as per the qualitative and quantitative provisions of
paragraphs 2.1.1 to 2.1.2 above) once this Office has received and
acknowledged the completed Annexure A. However, to afford this Office the
opportunity to raise any objections to and/or to impose any conditions on the
implementation of the proposed non-material changes, IRB banks are
required to submit for regulatory reporting purposes the information outlined
in Annexure A at least ten working days prior to the reporting month in which
the proposed changes will be implemented. In the event that this Office does
not raise any objections and following acknowledgement of the proposed
changes, the IRB bank may implement the proposed changes.?

? An increase or a decrease.

® The ten-day period will commence only after receipt of the notification.

4

2.3 Communication

2.3.1 All proposed changes, irrespective of whether they are material or non-
material, shall be communicated in writing to this Office in the format
specified in Annexure A, and shall be signed by the Chief Risk Officer of the
IRB bank.

2.3.2 For changes that are deemed to be material, the additional information as
specified in item 12 of Table 1 of Annexure A shall be appended to the
completed Annexure A and communicated to this Office for its consideration
and approval prior to implementation.

2.3.3 In order to ensure a consistent application of the definition of the materiality
of rating system changes by all IRB banks, banks are required to have in
place a duly documented communication policy with this Office, approved by
the relevant designated committee.* The communication policy shall, among
other things, outline the criteria used by each IRB bank for classifying all
rating system changes as either material or non-material.

2.34 To enable this Office to set aside sufficient time to duly consider and review
all material changes and any other material aspects related to credit risk
rating systems, the aforementioned communication policy shall also contain
the explicit requirement for a biannual written communication update to be
submitted to this Office on all material developments in relation to each IRB
bank’s credit risk rating system. However, IRB banks shall communicate
immediately, in writing, any matters that may require the urgent attention of
this Office prior to the biannual communication updates. These
communication updates shall include, among other things, planned rating
system developments, recalibrations, material rating system changes, the
Credit Risk Rating System Register (refer to http://www.reservebank.co.za>
Regulation and supervision> Bank Supervision> International standards>
Internal ratings-based approaches: Application process and Self-assessment
and long form review templates) and any other noteworthy events with
respect to the IRB bank's credit risk rating systems. This should be
submitted, at the very least, on a biannual basis by 28 February and
31 August based on information as at 31 December and
30 June respectively.

2.4 Documentation

2.41 The minimum documentation standards specified in paragraphs 2.4.2 to
2.4.4 below shall apply to all additional information as specified in item 12 of
Table 1 of Annexure A, when submitting a material rating system change to
this Office.

2.42 The documentation provided shall allow for a full, independent re-
performance of the proposed rating system.

* This refers to the designated committee as defined in regulation 39(7) of the Regulations.

5

2.4.3 All submitted documentation shall be the final, signed-off version thereof, and
shall comply with the documentation standards as per regulation
23(11)(b)(v)(l) of the Regulations.

2.44 In addition to the minimum documentation standards as per regulation
23(11)(b)(v)(l) of the Regulations, this Office also requires that the following
information be included in the documentation provided:

2.4.4.1 an overview of the portfolio(s) rated by the rating system;

2.4.4.2 examples of the types of transactions rated by the rating system;

2.4.4.3 detailed information regarding data used for development, out-of-sample and
out-of-time testing, which should include the observation period, performance
period, sample size and stability (the IRB bank shall also demonstrate that
the data used in the rating system development are representative of the
population of the bank's actual borrowers or facilities);

2.4.4.4 changes made from the current to the proposed rating system with reasoning
behind the proposed changes;

2.4.4.5 segmentation applied in the rating system, including the final risk parameter
estimates and exposure at default (EAD) per segment;

2.4.4.6 a detailed explanation of the proposed methodology to be adopted;

2.4.4.7 any weaknesses or shortcomings of the proposed rating system;

2.4.4.8 RWA and capital impact, including the most granular impact possible for
example the RWA and capital impact per change where there are various
rating system changes; and

2.4.4.9 in cases where human judgement was used, the IRB bank should clearly
document the process for determining and reviewing estimates, which should
include all relevant and material information considered other than by the
rating system as well as the parties involved.

3. Acknowledgement of receipt

3.1 Two additional copies of this directive are enclosed for the use of your
institution’s independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt,
duly completed and signed by both the chief executive officer of the
institution and the said auditors, should be returned to this Office at the
earliest convenience of the aforementioned signatories.

René van Wyk

Registrar of Banks
The previous directive issued was Directive 1/2014, dated 09 June 2014.
