--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
G3/2011
2011-05-23
To: All banks, controlling companies, auditors of banks or controlling
companies and branches of foreign institutions
Guidance note 3/2011 issued in terms of section 6(5) of the Banks Act, 1990
Covered bonds
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001
Executive summary
When implemented by a bank, a covered bond structure will subordinate the
interests of depositors to the interests of the covered bond holders. A covered
bond structure is regarded as materially inconsistent with the objectives,
duties and responsibilities imposed on the Office for Banks. The current policy
of this Office is not to allow banks or branches to issue covered bonds or
engage in any synthetic or other structured transaction that in substance is
equivalent to a covered bond structure.
1.1
2.1
2.2
2.3
Purpose
The purpose of this Guidance Note is to inform all banks, controlling
companies and branches of foreign institutions of this Office's policy not to
allow the use of covered bonds and similar structures by banks in South
Africa.
Covered bonds
The mission of the Bank Supervision Department (BSD) of the South African
Reserve Bank is to promote the soundness of the domestic banking system
and to minimise systemic risk through the effective and efficient application of
international regulatory and supervisory standards and best practice.
On 16 December 2010, as part of the new Basel Ill framework, the Basel
Committee issued a document titled "International framework for liquidity risk
measurement, standards and monitoring", which contains the details of global
regulatory standards on bank liquidity.
The aforesaid document contains various references to covered bonds.
Normally the term "covered bond" refers to corporate bonds or debt securities
backed by cash flows from mortgages or public sector loans. Covered bonds
are similar in many ways to asset-backed securities created in a securitisation
scheme. However, in a securitisation scheme the relevant assets or risk are
370 Church Street Pretoria 0002
South Africa
• Tel +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272 • Fax +27 12 3133758
www.reservebank.co.za

--- Page 2 ---
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2
transferred from the balance sheet of the originator to an insolvency remote
institution, whereas covered bond assets remain on the issuer's balance
sheet.
An advantage to an investor investing in a covered bond is that the debt and
the underlying asset pool remain on the issuer's balance sheet, and issuers
have to ensure that the relevant asset pool consistently backs the covered
bond. In the event of default, the investor has recourse to both the relevant
asset pool and the issuer.
During the recent past the BSD received various enquiries regarding the
possible use of covered bonds by banks in South Africa. The enquiries
presumably emanate from the use of covered bonds in other jurisdictions and
markets as well as the reference thereto in the Basel Ill framework.
Since a covered bond structure in terms of which covered bonds are issued by
a bank will in essence subordinate the interests of depositors to the interests
of the covered bond holders, a covered bond structure is regarded by the BSD
as possibly being materially inconsistent with the objectives, duties and
responsibilities imposed on the BSD in terms of the provisions of the Banks
Act, 1990 (Act No. 94 of 1990 - the "Banks Act).
Therefore, after due consideration, and after taking into account the
2.8
3.1
banks, controlling companies and branches of foreign institutions that the
current policy of the BSD is not to allow banks or branches to issue covered
bonds or engage in any synthetic or other structured transaction that in
substance is equivalent to a covered bond structure.
In line with the mission of the BSD, all international regulatory and supervisory
standards and best practices are duly considered, and the BSD will continue
to monitor and appropriately consider all relevant international developments
related to covered bonds.
Acknowledgement of Receipt
Two additional copies of this guidance note are enclosed for the use of your
institution's independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt,
duly completed and signed by both the chief executive officer and the said
auditors, must be returned to this Office at the earliest convenience of the
aforementioned signatories.
EM Kruger
Registrar of Banks
The previous guidance note issued was Guidance Note 2/2011, dated 13 May 2011.