--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
Ref.: 15/8/2
G3/2016
2016-03-11
To banks, branches of foreign institutions, controlling companies, eligible
institutions and auditors of banks or controlling companies
Guidance Note 3/2016 issued in terms of section 6(5) of the Banks Act 94 of 1990
Credit risk and accounting for expected credit losses
Executive summary
Regulation 39 of the Regulations relating to Banks (the Regulations) requires banks,
controlling companies and branches of foreign institutions (hereinafter collectively
referred to as 'banks'), to establish and maintain a process of sound corporate
governance that (i) is consistent with the nature, complexity and risk inherent in the
bank's on- and off-balance-sheet activities, and (ii) responds to changes in the
bank's environment and conditions. This process includes the maintenance of
effective risk and capital management by banks. In order to achieve the objective of
maintaining effective risk and capital management, every bank should have in place
relevant risk management processes, procedures and board-approved policies.
The purpose of this guidance note is to bring to the attention of banks the latest
supervisory guidance on sound
credit risk practices associated with the
implementation and ongoing application of expected credit loss accounting
frameworks.
1.
Documents issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision relating
to credit risk and accounting for expected credit losses
1.1
1.2
In December 2015, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) released
a document relating to supervisory guidance on sound credit risk practices
associated with the implementation and ongoing application of expected credit loss
accounting frameworks,
namely "Guidance on credit risk and accounting for
expected credit losses"1
. The aforesaid document provides guidelines for and
establishes sound practices applicable to all banks.
The Office of the Registrar of Banks (this Office) is currently in the process of
updating its supervisory framework to remain up to date with the latest international
best practices, including the latest developments regarding credit risk and
accounting for expected credit losses.
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001
'Available at http://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d350.pdf.
370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria 0002
South Africa
Tel +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272 Fax +27 12 3133758
www.reservebank.co.z

--- Page 2 ---
2
1.3
Regulation 23(22)(a) of the Regulations requires among other things, that every
bank shall have in place-
1.3.1 a sufficiently robust system for the calculation of credit impairments in accordance
with the relevant requirements specified in Financial Reporting Standards issued
from time to time; and
1.3.2 sufficiently robust processes and board-approved policies, as well as sufficient
dedicated resources, to ensure the early identification of assets of deteriorating
credit quality, ongoing oversight of problem assets or credit exposure, etc.
1.4
In terms of the provisions of regulation 38(4)(c) and (e) of the Regulations, when
this Office is of the opinion that a bank's policies, processes and procedures
relating to its risk assessment are inadequate, this Office may require banks to,
inter alia, strengthen its risk management policies, processes or procedures or, if
deemed necessary, to maintain additional capital, calculated in such a manner and
subject to such conditions as may be specified in writing by this Office.
1.5
1.6
1.7
2.
2.1
As part of its supervisory review and evaluation process, this Office will review the
progress made by banks to incorporate the principles and guidance set out in the
aforesaid document issued by the BCBS into banks' policies, processes and
practices.
Banks are accordingly requested to assess their current policies, processes and
practices against the principles contained in the aforesaid document, taking into
account the nature, size, complexity and risk profile of their activities. Banks should
develop a plan to remedy any deficiencies that come to their attention during the
aforesaid assessments.
This Office will continue to engage with banks and auditors of banks through the
relevant industry
, forums on the readiness of respective banks for the
implementation of the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9 and will
issue in due course, if deemed necessary, any further guidance or requirements
surrounding the implementation of FRS 9, by banks.
Acknowledgement of receipt
Two additional copies of this guidance note are enclosed for use by your
institution's independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt, duly
completed and signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution and the
said auditors, should be returned to this Office at the earliest convenience of the
aforementioned signatories.
René van Wyk
Registrar of Banks
The previous guidance note issued was Guidance Note 2/2016, dated 3 February 2016.