=== Preamble ===
--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
Prudential Authority
Ref.: 15/8/2
D3/2018
To: All banks, controlling companies, branches of foreign institutions
and auditors of banks or controlling companies
Directive issued in terms of section 6(6) of the Banks Act 94 of 1990
Cloud computing and the offshoring of data
Executive summary
Regulation 39 of the Regulations relating to Banks (Regulations)
requires banks, controlling companies and branches of foreign
institutions (hereinafter collectively referred to as banks’) to establish
and maintain an appropriate process of corporate governance. This
process includes the maintenance of effective risk management
processes by banks and the continuous management of risk arising
from the use of cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data.
This directive sets the Prudential Authority’s requirements and related
considerations for cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data and
should be read with Guidance Note 5/2018.

=== Introduction ===
1.1 The Prudential Authority (PA) is aware that there are banks which may
already offshore their data, for instance, through an insourcing relationship
with a parent organisation. In addition, banks are increasingly considering
extending their use of cloud computing to more significant activities.
1.2 In this regard, the PA would like to clarify its policy and regulatory stance with
regard to cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data.
1.3 For the purpose of this directive:
1.3.1 Cloud computing is defined as a model for enabling convenient, on-demand
network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g.
networks, servers, storage facilities, applications and services) that can be
rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service
provider interaction.
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001 - 370 Helen Joseph Street Pretona 0002 . South Africa Tel +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272 . Fax +27 12 3133758 www resbank co za
--- Page 2 ---
2
1.3.2 Offshoring of data refers to the storage and/or processing of data outside the
borders of South Africa.
1.4 The purpose of this directive is to set out the PA's requirements under which
banks may use cloud computing and/or offshore their data.
1.5 The supplementary information contained in Guidance Note 5/2018 is
provided to assist banks to comply with and better understand the PA's
requirements with regard to cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data. As
such, this directive should be read in conjunction with the aforesaid
Guidance Note 5/2018.
1.6 Banks should consider the contents of this directive and the associated
Guidance Note 5/2018 in the context of their overall legislative obligations,
including obligations to the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) and the South
African Reserve Bank's Financial Surveillance Department, which may have
different statutory objectives and requirements.
1.7 The PA expects banks to follow a risk-based approach that is aligned with
the bank's risk appetite, based on the nature and size of its operations, when
implementing cloud computing and/or the offshoring data.
1.8 Different cloud models implemented by banks should be assessed based on
the level of risk and/or whether mitigation controls, or part thereof, are
managed either internally, externally and/or through a combination of both.

=== Directive ===
21 Based on the aforesaid, and in accordance with the provisions of section 6(6)
of the Banks Act 94 of 1990, banks are hereby directed to:
2.1.1 comply with the requirements as set out in this directive in which banks may
make use of cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data, read in
conjunction with the related Guidance Note 5/2018, from 1 October 2018
onwards;
2.1.2 provide the PA with the information related to their material cloud computing
and/or offshoring of data arrangements, in accordance with Guidance
Note 5/2014; and
2.1.3 refer any uncertainty in respect of any matter referred to in this directive to
the PA for further clarification, as deemed necessary.
2.2 The directive under which banks may use cloud computing and/or the
offshoring of data are set out below:
2.2.1 Banks must have in place a formally defined and board approved data
strategy and data governance framework.
--- Page 3 ---
3
2.22 Banks that use cloud computing and/or offshore their data must have a
clearly defined policy for such activities, which is aligned with its business
strategy and linked to its risk appetite.
2.2.3 Oversight of cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data must be
incorporated into the governance structures, processes and procedures
within the bank.
2.2.4 Banks must ensure that their risk and control frameworks, including the
application thereof, are designed and operating effectively in order to
manage the risks associated with the use of cloud computing and/or the
offshoring of data.
2.2.5 Prior to undertaking a particular cloud computing and/or data offshoring
initiative, the bank must assess whether the risk involved is within its risk
appetite.
2.2.6 All strategic investments by the bank, including the use of cloud computing
and/or the offshoring of data, must be subjected to appropriate due diligence.
2.2.7 Banks must take all reasonable measures to ensure the confidentiality,
integrity and availability of its data, information technology (IT) applications or
systems.
2.2.8 Banks that use cloud computing and/or offshore their data must ensure that
they remain compliant with applicable legislation and regulations, both locally
as well as in any country where the cloud services and/or data are hosted.
2.2.9 The use of cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data must not in any way
infringe on the bank's supervisors or prevent any regulatory mandated
access to information, nor must it impact on its regulators’ ability to fulfil their
duties.
2.2.10 Banks must have contingency plans to continue with operations and meet
their core obligations, such as regulatory, statutory or otherwise, despite any
cloud computing and/or offshoring of data arrangements which may be in
place.
2.2.11 Banks must ensure that their intellectual property rights and contractual rights
to data are not compromised, despite any cloud computing and/or offshoring
of data arrangements which may be in place. Data must always be in a
usable, readable and portable state, even when the contract is terminated.
2.2.12 Any cloud computing and/or offshoring of data arrangements must not impact
on banks’ ability to conduct forensic audits or investigations.
2.2.13 All cloud computing and/or offshoring of data arrangements must be
contained in a documented, legally binding agreement.
--- Page 4 ---
4

=== Acknowledgement of receipt ===
3.1 Kindly ensure that a copy of this directive is made available to your
institution's independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt
duly completed and signed by both the chief executive officer of the
institution and the said auditors should be returned to the PA at the earliest
convenience of the aforementioned signatories.
Kuben Naidoo
Deputy Governor and CEO: Prudential Authority
Date: 5 S&PIEMELe 2g
The previous directive issued was Directive 2/2018 dated 13 August 2018.
