Executive summary

The purpose of this circular is to bring to the attention of banks, branches of

foreign institutions and controlling companies (hereinafter collectively referred to

as ‘banks’), eligible institutions and the auditors of banks the requirements of
sections 7(3), 7(4) and 7(5) of the Banks Act as amended by the Financial Sector

Regulation Act No. 9 of 2017, in so far as a DD audit of a bank is concerned.

1. Requirements of the Banks Act in respect of DD audits

1.1 Section 7(3) of the Banks Act states that: “no due diligence audit of the financial
condition of any bank shall be conducted without the Authority first having been
notified in writing of the intention to do so.”

1.2 Section 7(4) of the Banks Act states that: “the person at whose request a due
diligence audit of the financial condition of a bank has been conducted shall furnish
the Authority with a copy of the audit report.”

1.3 Furthermore section 7(5) of the Banks Act states that: “no person shall without the
written consent of the Authority disclose to any other person, except to the bank
whose financial condition was the subject of the due diligence audit, any information
contained in a report referred to in subsection (4).”

1.4 It has come to the attention of the Prudential Authority (PA) that there have been
contraventions of the provisions of section 7(3), section 7(4) and section 7(5) of the
Banks Act.

1.5 In terms of the provisions of section 91(1) of the Banks Act, any person who fails to
comply with a provision of section 7(3), 7(4) or 7(5) of the Banks Act, shall be guilty
of an offence.

2

1.6 The onus remains on banks, auditors of banks, eligible institutions and all other
relevant stakeholders to ensure ongoing compliance with all the provisions and
requirements of the Banks Act.

2, Acknowledgement of receipt

2.1 Kindly ensure that a copy of this circular is made available to your institution's
independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt duly completed
and signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution and the said auditors
should be returned to the PA at the earliest convenience of the aforementioned
signatories.

Kuben Naidoo

Deputy Governor and CEO: Prudential Authority

Date: 3 UL 2Q

The previous circular issued was Banks Act Circular 1/2018, dated 8 February 2018.
