=== Preamble ===
Ref.: 15/8/1/3
D1/2024
To: All banks, branches of foreign institutions, controlling companies, eligible
institutions and auditors of banks or controlling companies
Directive issued in terms of section 6(6) of the Banks Act 94 of 1990
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements for interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB)
Executive summary
In terms of regulation 43(1) of the Regulations relating to Banks (Regulations), ‘a bank
shall disclose in its annual financial statements and other disclosures to the public,
reliable, relevant and timely qualitative and quantitative information that enables
users of that information, among other things, to make an accurate assessment of
the bank’s financial condition, including, but not limited to, its capital adequacy
position, its liquidity position, financial performance, leverage ratio, ownership,
governance, business activities, risk profile and risk management practices’.
The Pillar 3 disclosure requirements aim to promote market discipline by providing
users with key information relating to, for example, a bank’s regulatory capital and
risk exposures. A key goal of Pillar 3 disclosure requirements is to improve
transparency and confidence in a bank’s exposure to risk as well as the overall
adequacy of its regulatory capital.
The purpose of this Directive is to direct banks, controlling companies and branches
of foreign institutions (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘banks’) to comply with
specified Pillar 3 disclosure requirements related to IRRBB.

=== Introduction ===
1.1         The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) has consolidated the
disclosure requirements in the Disclosure Requirements (DIS)-themed chapter of
the Basel framework. The disclosure requirements related to IRRBB are contained
in DIS 70.
1.2         This Directive sets out the specific disclosure requirements related to IRRBB and
must be read with D1/2019 and regulation 43(1) of the Regulations for the general
principles related to Pillar 3 disclosure requirements.
1

=== Directive ===
In accordance with the provisions of section 6(6) of the Banks Act 94 of 1990, banks
are hereby directed to adhere to the following requirements in disclosing the
information related to IRRBB to the public:
2.1        The Pillar 3 disclosure requirements related to IRRBB, attached hereto as Annexure
A, shall as a minimum apply to the banks reporting at solo level until such time that
the Prudential Authority (PA) directs otherwise. These disclosure requirements are
applicable to branches of foreign institutions conducting the business of a bank in
South Africa, unless the PA has directed otherwise.
2.2        With regard to templates that require the disclosure of data points for current and
previous reporting periods, the disclosure of data points for previous periods is not
required when metrics for new standards are reported on for the first time.
2.3        Banks shall disclose the relevant required information set out in table IRRBBA
(‘IRRBB risk management objectives and policies’) as well as template IRRBB1
(‘quantitative information on IRRBB’) according to the formats and frequencies
specified in DIS 70, hereby attached as Annexure A. The data points in table
IRRBB1 shall be disclosed on a behavioural basis. Should a bank not apply
behaviouralisation, it shall report on a contractual basis.
2.4        As stated in paragraph 2.2.1.1 of Directive 2 of 2023 (D2/2023), banks must disclose
the relevant required information related to IRRBB for the years ending on or after
1 January 2024.

=== Acknowledgement of receipt ===
3.1        Kindly ensure that a copy of this Directive is made available to your institution’s
external auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt duly completed and
signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution and the said auditors
should be returned to the PA at the earliest convenience of the aforementioned
signatories.
Fundi Tshazibana
Chief Executive Officer
Date: 05/03/24
Encl.: 1
The previous directive issued was Directive 8/2023 dated 28 September 2023.
2
