=== Preamble ===
--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
C2/2014
2014-02-12
To: All banks, controlling companies, eligible institutions and auditors of banks
or controlling companies
Circular 2/2014 issued in terms of section 6(4) of the Banks Act, 1990:
Interpretation of definition of default as outlined in regulation 67 of the
Regulations relating to Banks
Executive summary
“Default”, as defined in regulation 67 of the Regulations relating to Banks (the
Regulations), in relation to the internal rating-based (IRB) approach for the
measurement of a bank’s exposure to credit risk is aligned with the International
Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards, A Revised
Framework (Basel Il).
Default relating to instalment-based products appears to be inconsistently
interpreted across the banking industry. For many portfolios the product systems
implemented by banks use a day-count approach to define defaulted assets and
accordingly these are in full compliance with the prescribed definition of default,
that is, more than 90 days past due. However, this Office is aware that for certain
portfolios, such as instalment-based products, the product systems implemented
by banks are based on a missed monthly instalments approach.
The purpose of this circular is to inform all banks, controlling companies and
branches of foreign institutions (hereafter referred to as “banks”) of the
interpretation to be applied when monitoring defaulted exposures in relation to
the IRB approach for the measurement of a bank’s exposure to credit risk.
1: Introduction
14 During this Office’s implementation of Basel Il on 1 January 2008, it had been
adopted in its letter and spirit as an absolute minimum. The definition of default
is extensively dealt with in Basel Il, paragraphs 452 to 459. The Regulations are
duly aligned to Basel Il and therefore default, as defined in regulation 67 of the
Regulations, require no amendment.
--- Page 2 ---
2
1.2 Furthermore, the strict day-count approach to define defaulted assets is in full
compliance with the prescribed definition of default in accordance with Basel Il,
the Regulations and most other supervisory authorities.
1.3 However, default relating to instalment-based products appears to be
inconsistently interpreted across the banking industry and this Office is aware
that for certain instalment-based products, the product systems implemented by
banks track missed monthly instalments.

=== Interpretation of the definition of default ===
2.1 After due consideration of banks’ system development plans, read with the
provisions of regulation 1 of the Regulations, this Office has concluded that the
use of a three missed monthly instalments approach to determine whether a
default has occurred approximates a similar outcome as the use of the
day-count approach.
2.2 Therefore, banks that adopted the IRB approach for the measurement of their
exposure to credit risk may use a three missed monthly instalments approach to
determine whether a default has occurred, as opposed to using the strict
day-count approach, for those exposures where the product systems
implemented are based on a missed monthly instalments approach, provided
that the bank shall formally, in writing
2.2.1 inform this Office of its intention to use the three missed monthly instalments
approach instead of the strict day-count approach;
2.2.2 specify the portfolios in respect of which this approach will be applied;
2.2.3 quantify the portfolios affected as a percentage of total credit exposure;
2.2.4 demonstrate that their approach is consistent over time and across and within
impacted portfolios;
2.2.5 demonstrate that their approach is used as a basis for internal management-
and external reporting; and
2.2.6 provide an action plan, if any, to move towards the strict day-count approach.
2.3 Banks that choose not to use the three missed monthly instalments approach,
shall comply with the strict day count definition of default (that is, more than
90 days past due) for every relevant credit portfolio.
2.4 Failure to do so will result in non-compliance with the Regulations and will be
subject to a formal submission to this Office stating the reasons for
non-compliance and indicating the measures that are being taken to comply
with either of the above-mentioned two approaches, including the timeframe for
rectification and compliance.
--- Page 3 ---
3

=== Acknowledgement of receipt ===
3.1 Two additional copies of this circular are enclosed for the use of your
institution’s independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt,
duly completed and signed by both the chief executive officer and the said
auditors, must be returned to this Office at the earliest convenience of the
0 signatories.
René van Wyk
Registrar of Banks
The previous circular issued was Banks Act Circular 1/2014 dated 4 February 2014.
This circular replaces Banks Act Circular 2/2010, dated 2 June 2010.
