Executive summary
Regulation 39 of the Regulations relating to Banks (the Regulations) requires
banks, controlling companies and branches of foreign institutions (hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘banks’) to establish and maintain a robust process of
corporate governance. This process includes the maintenance of effective risk
management and capital by a bank. In order to achieve the objective relating to
the maintenance of effective risk management and capital, every bank is required
to have in place comprehensive risk management processes, practices and
procedures, and board-approved policies.
The purpose of this directive is to require banks to implement robust risk
management practices that include specified matters related to risk data
aggregation and risk reporting.
1. Introduction
1.1 The Principles for Effective Risk Data Aggregation and Risk Reporting’ (the
Principles) were issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS)
in January 2013. The Principles aim to strengthen banks’ risk management
practices by improving their risk data aggregation and risk reporting. It is
anticipated that complying with the Principles will improve banks’ ability to
provide rapid and comprehensive risk data by legal entity and business line,
which will ultimately enhance banks’ decision-making processes and improve
their resolvability.
' See http://www. bis.org/publ/bcbs239. pdf.
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001 + 370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria 0002 . South Africa ‘ Tel #27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272 . Fax +27 12 3133758 . www.reservebank.co.za

2

1.2 The Principles were specifically addressed to global systemically important banks
(G-SIBs) and apply not only at a group level, but also to all material business
units or entities within the G-SIB group. National supervisors may nevertheless
choose to apply the Principles to all banks in their jurisdiction.

1.3 Following the issuance of guidance note 3 of 2014 and the completion of the seif-
assessment against the Principles by banks, this Office has decided to adopt the
Principles as an integral part of its regulatory and supervisory framework.

2. Directive
Based on the aforesaid, and in accordance with the provisions of section 6(6) of
the Banks Act, 1990:

2.1 domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs) are hereby directed to comply
with the Principles from 1 January 2017 onwards;

2.2 banks that fall under a controlling company or bank that has been designated as
a G-SIB are directed to comply with the due date specified by the BCBS for G-
SIBs; and

2.3 the effective due date for compliance with the high-level Principles and any
specified detailed requirements by non-D-SIBs shall be considered on a case-by-
case basis and shall be agreed and confirmed in writing by this Office with each
relevant non-D-SIB individually.

3. Acknowledgement of receipt
Two additional copies of this directive are enclosed for the use of your
institution's independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt,
duly completed and signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution
and the said auditors, should be returned to this Office at the earliest
convenience of the aforementioned signatories.

René van Wyk

Registrar of Banks

The previous directive issued was Directive 1/2015, dated 04 February 2015.
