--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
From the Office of
the Registrar of Banks
Confidential
2008-05-07
G7/08
TO ALL BANKS, CONTROLLING COMPANIES AND BRANCHES OF FOREIGN BANKS
GUIDANCE NOTE 7/2008 ISSUED IN TERMS OF SECTION 6(5) OF THE BANKS ACT, 1990:
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME FOR DIRECTORS OF BANKS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
anks Act Circular 6/2007 dated 14 November 2007 regarding consultation with banks
ontrolling companies and branches of foreign banks in respect of directives, circulars an
guidance notes refers.
The purpose of this guidance note is to inform all banks and controlling companies of the
development programme for current and prospective directors.
1.
Introduction
This Office has conducted a detailed analysis of the information obtained from banks in
response to Banks Act Circular 5/2006 - Training of Directors and decided to provide
guidance on this matter.
Regarding the subject of director induction and development, it has become clear that most
duties.
2.
Requirements of directors
The banking landscape has changed drastically over the past few years. Changes have
occurred both in the regulatory framework and the range of activities that banks engage in.
Therefore, newly-appointed as well as experienced directors require development on certain
aspects.
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001
370 Church Street Pretoria 0002
Tel +27 12 3133911/0861 12 7272
Fax +27 12 3133758
www.reservebank.co.za

--- Page 2 ---
2
All banks should be cognisant of the fact that the newly-appointed directors of today will be
the "experienced directors" of tomorrow and, consequently, be entrusted the responsibility of
not only leading the banking industry but also providing guidance to new directors.
3.
Guidance on accredited external development programme
Against this backdrop, and in view of the legal obligation placed on the Office for Banks to
assess directors of banks, this Office has been in consultation with the Banking Association
to discuss the issue of director development.
Both parties agreed that this matter needs urgent attention and concurred that no accredited
external development programmes intended for bank directors are currently available.
Following these discussions, the Banking Association pursued the matter. This culminated
in enquiries by the Banking Association to the Gordon Institute of Business Science ("GIBS")
regarding the feasibility of them presenting a programme that would cover all the key issues
under consideration. GIBS representatives prepared such a programme and in doing so
received input from various interested parties. The Banking Association and this Office both
believe that this programme would be of value to directors of all banks.
In its pursuit of promoting a sound
and stable banking sector, this Office strongly
encourages the chairpersons of banks' boards of directors to consider the development
programme. Chairpersons, together with individual directors, should identify the areas in
which directors would require development. It is envisaged that new directors would benefit
from the complete development programme, whereas experienced directors might need to
complete selected modules.
Banks should be aware that this programme should be considered supplementary to any
internal induction and development programmes which banks may have, and not as an
alternative, thereto.
4. Acknowledgement of receipt
Two additional copies of this guidance note are enclosed for the use of your institution's
independent auditors. The attached acknowledgement of receipt, duly completed and
signed by both the chief executive officer of the institution and the said auditors, should be
returned to this Office at the earliest convenience of the aforementioned signatories.
EM Kruger
Registrar of Banks
The previous guidance note issued was Guidance Note 6/2008, dated 7 May 2008.