• FSCA
Financial Sector
Conduct Authority
CONDUCT STANDARD 1 OF 2018
FINANCIAL MARKETS ACT NO 19 OF 2012
CRITERIA FOR AUTHORISATION OF OTC DERIVATIVES PROVIDERS
The Financial Sector Conduct Authority, hereby under section 6(8)(a) of the Financial Markets Act,
2012 (Act No. 19 of 2012), prescribe criteria for authorisation as an OTC derivative provider as set
out in the Schedule.
ABEL MOFFAT SITHOLE
For THE FINANCIAL SECTOR CONDUCT AUTHORITY
Date of publication: 27 July 2018
Page 1 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SCHEDULE
1.
Definitions
In this Schedule, "the Act" means the Financial Markets Act, 2012 (Act No. 19 of 2012), and "the
Regulations" means the Regulations prescribed under the Act, and any word or expression to
which a meaning has been assigned in the Act or the Regulations bears the meaning so assigned
to it, and unless the context otherwise indicates-
"provider" has the same meaning as "authorised OTC derivative provider"; and
"senior manager" means a member of senior management or the person in charge of the unit or
division that carries on the business of the provider.
2.
Application
(1)
A juristic person may apply to the Authority to be authorised as a provider.
(2) An applicant for authorisation as a provider must submit a written application on Form
FM 6 accompanied by the information-
(a)
(b)
specified in Annexure 1 to Form FM 6; and
required in respect of members of the controlling body and every senior manager of the
provider specified in Annexure 2 to Form FM 6.
Address
Applications must be submitted to:
The Financial Sector Conduct Authority
PO Box 35655
Menlo Park
0102
Riverwalk Office Park
Block B
41 Matroosberg Road
Ashlea Gardens Ext 6
0081
Email: authorisationofODPs@fsca.co.za
Page 2 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---


--- PAGE BREAK ---

4. Criteria for authorisation
4.1
Operational capital requirements
(1) An applicant and a provider must-
(a)
maintain capital, together with retained earnings and reserves proportional to the risks
relating to the business of the provider in the Republic of South Africa;
(b) hold sufficient capital and liquid net assets funded by equity in the Republic of South Africa to
cover potential general business losses to ensure-
that the applicant and the provider are adequately protected against operational, legal,
custody, and investment risks so that it can continue providing services as a going
concern; and
(ii)
an orderly wind-up or reorganisation of the applicant and the provider's critical
operations and services over an appropriate time period of at least six months under a
range of stress scenarios;
(c)
hold equity capital in the Republic of South Africa-
(i)
which reflects a strong cash, cash-equivalent, or securities position to allow the
provider to meet its current and projected operating expenses under a range of
scenarios; provided that cash equivalents and securities consist of high-quality and
sufficiently liquid assets that can easily be converted into cash at little or no loss of
value, even in adverse market conditions;
(il)
which, at a minimum, is equal to six months of operating expenses, provided that the
provider considers whether resources are required beyond that amount, taking into
account its general business risk profile; and
(iii) which is permanently available for the provider to absorb operating expenses or losses
on an ongoing basis;
(d)
safeguard its assets-
(i) to minimise the risk of loss or delay in access to these assets; and
(ii) by holding the assets at supervised and regulated entities that have robust accounting
practices, safekeeping procedures, and internal controls that fully protect these assets;
and
(e) have a viable plan, approved by its controlling body and updated regularly for raising
additional equity should the equity fall below the amount required to cover all its operating
expenses.
(2) (a) A provider must furnish the Authority with a quarterly report detailing the calculation
of the required liquid net assets, calculated in terms of this Standard and the measures taken to
obtain additional funding, if necessary.
Page 3 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(b) If the Authority is not satisfied that such liquid net assets are sufficient to cover the
risks involved, the Authority may require a provider to obtain additional liquid assets funded by
equity over a time period as determined by the Authority.
4.2
Fit and Proper Requirements
An applicant and a provider must satisfy the Authority that it complies with the following fit and
proper requirements:
4.2.1 Honesty and integrity
(1)
A member of the controlling body and every senior manager of an applicant and a
provider must be a person who is honest and has integrity.
(2) In determining whether a member of the controlling body or a senior manager of an
applicant and a provider complies with subparagraph (1), the Authority may refer to any
information in possession of the Authority or brought to the Authority's attention.
(3) Without limiting the generality of subparagraphs (2), any of the following factors
constitutes prima facie evidence that the person does not qualify in terms of subparagraph (1),
namely that the person-
(a)
has within a period of five years preceding the date of application been found guilty in any
civil or criminal proceedings by a court of law (whether in the Republic of South Africa or
elsewhere) of having acted fraudulently, dishonestly, unprofessionally, dishonourably or in
breach of a fiduciary duty;
(b)
has within a period of five years preceding the date of application been found guilty by any
professional or financial services industry body (whether in the Republic of South Africa or
elsewhere) of an act of dishonesty, negligence, incompetence or mismanagement;
(c)
has within a period of five years preceding the date of application been denied membership
of any body referred to in sub-paragraph (b) on account of an act of dishonesty, negligence,
incompetence or mismanagement;
(a)
has within a period of five years preceding the date of application—
(i) been found guilty by any regulatory or supervisory body (whether in the Republic of
South Africa or elsewhere), or
(ii)
had its authorisation to carry on business refused, suspended or withdrawn by any
such body,
on account of an act of dishonesty, negligence, incompetence or mismanagement;
(e) has within a period of five years preceding the date of application, had any licence granted
by any regulatory or supervisory body referred to in subparagraph (d) suspended or
withdrawn by such body on account of an act of dishonesty, negligence, incompetence or
mismanagement; or
Page 4 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(1) has at any time prior to the date of application been disqualified or prohibited by any court of
law (whether in the Republic of South Africa or elsewhere) from taking part in the
management of any company or other statutorily created, recognised or regulated body,
irrespective whether such disqualification has since been lifted or not.
(4) An applicant, and a member of the controlling body or a senior manager of an applicant
must in the application be candid and accurate and must of own accord disclose all facts or
information at the disposal of, or which may be accessible to the applicant, a member of the
controlling body or a senior manager and which may be relevant for purposes of a decision by the
Authority whether the provider, the members of the controlling body or the senior manager
complies with subparagraph (1).
(5) A provider must submit its application with completed Annexure B and C Forms in
respect of each of the members of the controlling body and senior managers.
4.2.2 Competency
(1) An applicant and a provider must satisfy the Authority that the members of the
controlling body or senior managers have the competency to undertake the relevant duties and
functions of the provider, and where appropriate, detailed knowledge of the structure, purpose and
risks of the OTC derivatives associated with the duty or function.
(2) To demonstrate competence, a member of the controlling body or a senior manager
involved in carrying out the applicable duties and functions must act in a knowledgeable,
professional and efficient manner.
(3) Without limiting the generality of subparagraph (1), in determining a person's
competence, the Authority may have regard to the following matters:
(a) the person's past performance or expertise in the nature of the business being conducted;
(b) the person's skills and experience to understand, operate and manage the regulated
activities and financial affairs; and
(c) the person's technical knowledge and ability to perform prescribed duties for which he or she
is engaged, including recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant
professional institutions.
(4) A provider must, in addition to any conditions imposed by the Authority to the
authorisation of the provider-
(a) maintain an updated register of members of the controlling body and senior managers;
(b) promptly inform the Authority when an appointment of a member of the controlling body or a
senior manager is terminated, and the reason for the termination;
(c) complete Annexure B when a new member of the controlling body or senior manager is
appointed, and promptly submit it to the Authority;
Page 5 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(d) annually submit a written statement to the Authority wherein continued compliance with this
Standard with respect to each member of the controlling body and senior manager is
confirmed.
4.2.3 Operational ability
An applicant and a provider must have and be able to maintain the operational ability to fulfil the
responsibilities imposed by the Act, including the following-
(a) a fixed business address in the Republic of South Africa;
(b)
adequate access to communication facilities, including a full-time telephone or cell phone
service, and administrative facilities, including electronic, typing and document duplication
facilities;
(0)
adequate storage and filing systems for the safe-keeping of records,
business
communications and correspondence; and
(d)
an account with a registered bank in the Republic of South Africa.
4.2.4 Financial soundness of the provider
(1) An applicant and a provider may not be in liquidation or in provisional liquidation, or
subject to business rescue proceedings as contemplated in the Companies Act, or have made
arrangements with creditors, or filed for winding-up.
(2) The assets of the applicant and the provider (excluding goodwill and other intangible
assets) must exceed its liabilities (excluding loans validly subordinated in favour of all other
creditors).
(3)
A provider-
(a)
(b)
must maintain current assets which are at least sufficient to meet current liabilities; and
may not be subject to any judgment debt or award that remains outstanding or has not been
satisfied within a reasonable period.
4.2.5 Financial soundness of members of the controlling the body or senior managers
A member of the controlling body or senior manager of a provider may not be -
(a)
an unrehabilitated insolvent or subject to debt review as contemplated by the National Credit
Act, 2005 (Act No. 34 of 2005); and
(b) subject to any judgment debt or award that remains outstanding or has not been satisfied
within a reasonable period.
Page 6 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

4.3 Risk management and internal control
(1) A provider must organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with-
(a) sound risk management principles, that takes into account-
(i) its risk appetite, risk profile, market and macroeconomic conditions; and
(i) the risk of a significant deterioration in market liquidity; and
(b) prudent policies and processes, systems and resources, approved by its controlling body, to
identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate risks on a timely basis.
(2) The provider's controlling body is responsible to oversee management of the provider
in such a way that ensures that the policies and processes are implemented effectively and fully
integrated into the provider's management process.
(3) The policies and processes of the provider must be formulated and designed to ensure
that the controlling body and senior management of the provider are able to-
(a) identify, quantify and manage the risk exposures of the provider, which includes -
(i) effective information systems for accurate and timely identification, aggregation,
monitoring and reporting of risk exposures to the provider's controlling body and senior
management;
(i)
appropriate risk limits consistent with the provider's risk appetite and risk profile, and
which are understood by and regularly communicated to relevant staff;
(ili)
exceptions tracking and reporting processes that ensure prompt action at the
appropriate level of the provider's senior management or controlling body, where
necessary; and
(iv)
adequate structures, processes systems and controls in respect of instruments,
contracts or positions measured at fair value, which structures, processes and systems
and controls -
(aa) must ensure that the controlling body receives regular reports from senior
management regarding matters related to the valuation oversight and valuation
model performance that were brought to the attention of senior management for
resolution, and all significant changes to valuation policies;
(bb) must be sufficiently robust to ensure and promote the quality, integrity and
reliability of all relevant input that affects the valuation of instruments, contracts or
positions, which must take into account-
(AA) the frequency and availability of relevant prices or quotes;
(BB) whether or not the relevant prices present actual regularly occurring
transactions on an arm's length basis;
(CC) the timeliness of the information relative to the frequency of valuations;
Page 7 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(DD) the number of independent sources that produce the relevant quotes or
prices;
(EE) whether or not the relevant quotes or prices are supported by actual
transactions; and
(FF) the maturity of the market;
(b) ensure that the model is validated by a function independent of the relevant risk-taking
business units, not less frequent than once per year, to the extent that the provider relies on
modelling for the purposes of valuation;
(c) monitor the performance of the business of the provider; and
(d) monitor the quality of the provider's assets and the control of its liabilities.
(4) The system of internal control employed by the applicant and a provider must be
designed to ensure that-
(a)
financial and other information used or provided by the provider is reliable;
(b)
all transactions and financial commitments entered into are recorded and are within the
scope of authority of the provider or an employee acting on behalf of the provider;
(c)
there are procedures to safeguard the assets of the provider and assets belonging to any
other person for which the provider is accountable, and
(d)
there are measures, so far as is reasonably practicable; to minimise the risk of loss to the
provider or the counterparties or clients of the provider from any irregularity, fraud or error
and to detect any irregularity, fraud or error should they occur so that prompt remedial action
may be taken by the provider.
(5)
A provider must conduct a regular review to ensure that it maintains adequate policies,
procedures and controls to meet the objectives referred to in sub-paragraphs 4(b) and (c).
(6)
A provider must take reasonable steps to document all material systems and controls
and the relevant documentation must be kept up to date, and be signed off by the controlling body
annually.
(7) An applicant and a provider must be able to describe and demonstrate the objectives
and operation of its risk management procedures and its systems and controls to the Authority.
(8) The Authority may request an additional capital amount to be held to the calculated
capital, if the provider -
(a) fails to satisfy the condition stipulated in sub-paragraph 4(d) to the satisfaction of the Authority;
or
(b) fails to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Authority that the provider has a sufficient number
of sufficiently skilled staff in-
(i) the provider's trading area;
(il) risk control;
(ili)
audit, or independent review function; or
Page 8 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(iv) the back-office.
(9) A provider must conduct an appropriate independent review of the provider's risk
measurement system to ensure that it maintains adequate policies, procedures and controls to
meet the objectives referred to in sub-paragraphs 4(b) and (c), which may be conducted as part of
the provider's internal auditing process, and which must-
(a) include the activities of the relevant trading units, the independent risk control unit and the
provider's overall risk management processes;
(b) be conducted at regular intervals but not less frequent than once a year; and
(c) include -
(i) the adequacy of documentation relating to the provider's risk management policies,
systems and processes;
(il) the organisation of the risk control unit;
(ill) the integration of counterparty credit risk measures into daily risk management;
(IV) the approval process relating to all relevant risk pricing models and valuation systems
used by front and back office personnel;
(V) the validation of any significant changes made in respect of the provider's risk
management process;
(vi) the integrity of the provider's management information system;
(vil) the accuracy and completeness of relevant market variables and position data;
(vili) the verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data sources used to
operate internal models, including the independence of the data sources; and
(ix) the accuracy of valuation and risk transformation calculations.
4.4 Compliance function
A provider must-
(a) establish and maintain effective systems and controls to promote and monitor compliance
with its regulatory obligations;
(b)
establish a compliance function, which must-
(1)
form part of the overall risk management framework of the business of the provider;
(i1)
be staffed with an appropriate number of competent individuals, as determined by the
nature, size and complexity of the provider's business; and
(il) be sufficiently independent from the business activities it monitors;
(C)
appoint a head of compliance with the responsibility for-
(1)
the compliance function;
(ii)
oversight of the provider's compliance with the Act;
(ill)
reporting to the provider's controlling body regarding compliance matters; and
Page 9 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(d)
(iv)
reporting to the Authority, on an annual basis in respect of the provider's compliance
with its regulatory obligations; and on an ad hoc basis, on-
(aa)
any non-compliance instances;
(bb)
any material irregularities encountered during the monitoring; and
(CG)
any matter deemed necessary to be brought to the attention of the Authority; and
notify the Authority of the appointment of the Head of Compliance.
4.5
Business continuity planning
An applicant and a provider must-
(a)
maintain a business continuity plan which adequately identifies and mitigates material
business continuity risks faced by the provider; and
(b) regularly test the effectiveness of the continuity plan and address any deficiencies.
4.6 Record keeping and data retention
An applicant and a provider-
(a) must maintain proper, complete, accurate and secure records;
(b) must have appropriate procedures and systems in place to store and retrieve in a manner
safe from destruction records of all-
(i)
instructions relating to an OTC derivative transaction with a client, or counterparty,
including verbal instructions given by the client or counterparty to the provider; and
(ii)
documentation relating to the contractual arrangement between the provider and the
client or counterparty;
(c) may keep records in electronic or voice recorded format;
(d)
may keep records at a third-party, provided that the records must be made available for
inspection within seven days; and
(e) must keep a record referred to in-
(i) sub-item(b)(i) for a period of at least six months after the instruction has been given;
(ii) sub-item (b)(ii) for a period of at least five years after the contractual relationship has
been terminated.
5.
Suspension and termination of authorisation
5.1 Involuntary termination
(1) The Authority may suspend or terminate the authorisation of a provider if satisfied, on the
basis of available facts and information, that the provider-
(a)
has ceased to exist;
Page 10 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

b) no longer meets the requirements contemplated in this Standard;
(c) has failed to make a full disclosure of all relevant information to the Authority, or furnished
false or misleading information in its application for authorisation; or
(d) has failed to comply with any other provision of this Standard or the Act;
(2) Before suspending or terminating any authorisation, the Authority must-
(a) inform the provider of the intention to suspend or terminate such authorisation and the
grounds for suspension or termination; and
(0) give the provider a reasonable opportunity to make a submission in response.
(3) Where the Authority contemplates the suspension of a provider, the Authority must
inform such provider of-
(a) the intended period of the suspension; and
(b) any terms to be attached to the suspension, including-
(i) a prohibition on concluding any new business by the provider as from the effective date
of the suspension and, in relation to outstanding business, such measures as the
Authority may determine for the protection of the interests of clients of the provider; and
(Il) terms designed to facilitate the lifting of the suspension.
(4) The Authority must consider any response received, and may thereafter decide to
suspend or terminate, or not to suspend or terminate, the authorisation of the provider, and must
notify the provider of the decision.
(5) Despite the provisions of sub-paragraph (2), the Authority may under urgent
circumstances, where the Authority is satisfied on reasonable grounds that substantial prejudice to
clients or the general public may occur, provisionally suspend the authorisation of a provider, and
inform the provider of-
(a) the grounds of suspension; and
(b) the period and terms of suspension as referred to in sub-paragraph (3)(b),
and give the provider a reasonable opportunity to respond thereto and to provide reasons why the
provisional suspension or withdrawal should be lifted or why the period and terms should be
changed.
(6) The Authority must, within a reasonable time after receipt of any response
contemplated in sub-paragraph (2) consider the response, and may decide to-
(a)
(D)
lift the provisional suspension; or
render the suspension final,
and must inform the provider accordingly.
(7) During any period of suspension, whether provisional or final, the provider concerned is
for the purposes of this Standard and the Act regarded as a person who is not authorised to act as
a provider.
Page 11 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(8) A person whose authorisation has been terminated under this section is prohibited
from carrying on the business of an OTC derivative provider for a period specified by the Authority
and from applying for a new authorisation.
(9) The Authority may, on good cause shown, vary any such period.
5.2
Voluntary termination
(1) A provider may voluntarily terminate its authorisation by making a submission to the
Authority at least 30 days prior to such termination.
(2) The Authority may -
(a) accept such termination unconditionally; or
(b) terminate the authorisation subject to such measures as the Authority may determine for the
protection of the interests of clients of the provider.
6.
Commencement and short title
This Standard comes into operation on the date of publication and is called the Criteria for
authorisation for OTC derivative providers.
Page 12 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

FORM FM 6
FINANCIAL MARKETS ACT, 2012 (ACT NO. 19 OF 2012)
Application under section 6(8)(a) of the Act for authorisation as an OTC derivative provider
1. I..........
....,the chief executive officer of
... (hereunder referred to as the provider),
being specifically authorised thereto by the controlling body of the provider, apply on behalf of
the provider for authorisation as an OTC derivative provider.
2. The prescribed application fee of
... is enclosed.
3. The place at which the business of the provider will be carried on is
Signed at
on this ......... day of
..20...
Chief Executive Officer
Witnesses:
1..
2.
Page 13 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ANNEXURE 1 TO FORM FM 6
Information which, if applicable to the provider in question, must be contained in an
application for authorisation as an over-the-counter derivative provider
1. The following administrative information:
(a) The postal, physical and electronic mail addresses of the provider's registered address or
head office at which it will receive all documents for the purpose of this application
(b) The telephone and facsimile numbers of the provider and the chief executive officer.
(c) A list which reflects the full names, addresses and telephone numbers of persons, it any,
who alone or with associates will exercise control over the provider.
(d) A list which reflects the full names of the members of the controlling body of the provider,
and a statement signed by each member to the effect that he or she knows of no reason
why he or she should not serve his or her term of office as a member of the controlling
body.
(e) A list which reflects the names, physical and postal addresses, telephone and facsimile
numbers of-
(i) the bank;
(ii) the auditor; and
(ili) the attorney;
of the provider.
2. A copy of the founding documents of the provider which regulates at least the following:
(a) The structure of the provider;
(b) the composition and functions of the controlling body;
Page 14 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(a) the procedures for election or appointment of members of the controlling body, their terms
of office, and when membership may be terminated;
(d) the procedures for the calling of meetings of people who hold ownership interests in the
provider;
(e) the voting powers of people who hold ownership interests in the provider;
(f) the appointment of auditors; and
(g) the procedures for the dissolution of the provider.
3. Adequacy of financial resources
(a) If the provider has been in existence for more than a year, a copy of its audited annual
financial statements as at its latest financial year-end.
(b) A copy of the budgeted income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement for a
three year period from the date of the latest financial statements.
(c) A statement signed by the chief executive officer of the provider specifying the critical
assumptions made in the preparation of budgets and the sources from which the provider
will derive its funding.
(d) Where arrangements have been made for the funding of any temporary shortfall in
available cash resources, a statement must be provided by the party or parties concerned
setting out the extent and terms of their commitment.
4. Adequacy of management and human resources
(a) An explanation of the management structure of the provider including the names of the
individuals responsible for the major functional areas and the number of personnel
employed in each functional area.
(b) A curriculum vitae in respect of each member of the management of the provider who is
responsible for a major functional area, which indicates his or her relevant experience and
training.
Page 15 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(c) A projection of management and staff requirements for the period covered by the budgets
referred to in paragraph 3(b).
5. The business plan of the provider, which has been approved by the controlling body and which
deals at least with the following matters:
(a) The planned development of the information technology systems and infrastructure of the
provider and arrangements for their supply, management, maintenance, upgrading and
security;
(b) the planned approach to qualifying, quantifying and managing risk within the provider;
(c) plans to ensure the integrity of the market;
(d) security procedures to ensure the integrity of the systems for recording transactions and
the maintenance of records, the capacity of these systems in relation to the budgeted
number of transactions and the back-up resources available in the event of a systems
failure; and
(e) the corporate governance principles that will be implemented.
6. A report from the auditor of the provider to the effect that adequate systems and procedures
are in operation relating to risk reduction, particularly by means of processing, physical, logical
security, back-up and contingency controls.
7. The provider must supply any other information, which the Authority may reasonably require.
Additional information, which must be contained in an application for an over-the-counter
derivative provider
1. Details of the services to be provided by the provider.
2. Details of the asset classes in respect of which the provider will be rendering services.
Details of the licensed trade repository that will be used for the reporting of transactions.
Page 16 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

4. Details of the licensed independent clearing house or associated clearing house appointed by
the provider, where applicable.
5. Details pertaining to the settlement, custody and administration arrangements to be put in
place by the provider.
6. Details of additional and/or unregulated business to be provided by the provider.
7. Details pertaining to whether the provider provides any services in respect of over-the-counter
derivative in a foreign jurisdiction.
8. Details pertaining to the trading method or facility through which the provider will trade its
securities.
9. The range of counterparties and clients, both local and foreign, expected to transact with the
provider.
10. The extent and manner of the arrangements in place for the valuation of securities.
11. The extent and manner of the arrangements in place for the facilitation of portfolio
compression, where applicable.
12. The arrangements in place to effectively and efficiently manage the risks associated with the
activities of the provider.
13. The governance arrangements in place that are clear and transparent, promote the safety and
efficiency of the provider, and support the stability of the broader financial system, other
relevant public interest considerations, and the objectives of relevant stakeholders.
14. The arrangements in place to evidence compliance with the conduct standards as prescribed
by the Authority.
15. The arrangements in place for effective and efficient security and back-up procedures to
ensure the integrity of the records of transactions effected through the OTC derivative provider.
Page 17 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ANNEXURE 2 TO FORM FM 6
Information required in respect of members of controlling body of an OTC derivative
provider
An application for authorisation as an over-the-counter derivative provider must be accompanied
by the following information in respect of members of the controlling body of the provider:
1. A curriculum vitae in respect of each member of the controlling body indicating the nature and
extent of the member's qualifications and experience in the business operated by the provider
and the names of three referees.
2. Whether the member of the controlling body has ever been convicted or found guilty of a
criminal or disciplinary offence or liable in any civil proceeding by a court of law resulting from
dishonesty, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, a breach of the rules of any professional
organisation, including a regulated person, or acting dishonourably or unprofessionally.
3. Whether the member of the controlling body has ever been involved in an entity that was
placed under business rescue proceedings or in liquidation.
4. Whether the estate of a member of the controlling body has ever been sequestrated, and the
date of rehabilitation, if any.
5. Whether the member of the controlling body has ever been barred from entry into any
profession or occupation.
6. An indication if proceedings referred to in sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) are pending;
7. Full details of any fact which may have an impact on the evaluation by the Authority of the good
character and integrity of a member of the controlling body.
Page 18 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

FIT AND PROPER
ANNEXURE A
GENERAL INFORMATION ON COMPLETION OF QUESTIONNAIRES AS CONTAINED IN
ANNEXURES B AND C
A.
Instructions for completion and submission
1. The questionnaires in Annexure B and C must be properly completed and signed. Questions
must be answered either in full or indicated not applicable ("n/a"). The signatory(ies) of the
questionnaires must be duly authorised to fumish the information.
2. The questionnaires in Annexure B and C must be completed in respect of member of the
controlling body or senior managers as indicated therein.
3. The format of the questionnaire or the wording of questions may not be changed. However, this
document may be reproduced.
4. Answers may be in handwriting or in typewriting.
4.1.
If the questionnaire is completed electronically (a) the solid lines in those areas
provided for answers must be deleted before the answers are typed or alternatively
the overtype mode whilst the answers are typed must be used; and (b) rows may be
inserted where insufficient space is provided for answers.
4.2.
If the questionnaire is completed in writing and the space provided is not sufficient,
the detail may be provided on a separate page, duly cross-referenced to the
relevant question. Please indicate the number of any supplementary sheets
attached to Annexures B and C.
4.3.
If the questionnaire submitted contains any changes to typed or written information,
such changes must be duly signed.
Page 19 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ANNEXURE B
QUESTIONNAIRE TO BE COMPLETED IN RESPECT OF A MEMBER OF THE CONTROLLING
BODY OR SENIOR MANAGERS OF A PROVIDER
1. Personal details of the member of the controlling body or senior manager in respect of
which this questionnaire is being completed:
1.1.
Surname and title:
1.2. Full first name(s):
1.3. Any previous surname(s) or first name(s):
1.4. Indicate the proposed position to be held, e.g. member of controlling body or managing
member of controlling body:
1.5. Effective date of appointment:
1.6. Residential address and telephone number:
Page 20 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.7. Postal address:
1.8. Previous residential address(es) during the previous 5 years:
1.9. Nationality
Date of birth:
Place of birth: _
Identity Document number (attach a certified copy):_
Passport number (attach a certified copy):
Expiry date: _
Country of issue:
1.10. Nationality and indicate how it was acquired (e.g. birth, naturalisation or marriage):
_1.
1.11. Professional qualifications), the year(s) when, and the institution(s) at which, this was
acquired (may be provided in separate sheet):
Page 21 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.12. Attach completed Personal Credential Verification Forms for purposes of the background
screening of each member of the controlling body or senior manager. The forms are obtainable on
application.
1.13. Attach detailed curriculum vitae.
2. General details in respect of an individual.
2.1. State in what capacity you are completing this document, i.e. as a current or prospective
member of the controlling body (executive or non-executive) or senior manager. State full job
title and describe the particular duties and responsibilities:
2.2. Record of investments and significant shareholding history (including indirect holdings) over at
least the last five years (including those holdings which provided you a significant influence
over the operations and affairs of the entity):
3. Specific test to assess fitness and probity
If the answer to a question is 'yes' please provide details with proper referencing.
3.1 Have you ever been within a period of five years preceding the date of application been found
guilty in any civil or criminal proceedings by a court of law (whether in the Republic of South
Africa or elsewhere) of having acted fraudulently, dishonestly, unprofessionally, dishonourably
or in breach of a fiduciary duty?
Page 22 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.2 Have you, within a period of five years preceding the date of application been found guilty by
any professional or financial services industry body (whether in the Republic of South Africa or
elsewhere), of an act of dishonesty, negligence, incompetence or mismanagement?
3.3 Have you within a period of five years preceding the date of application been denied
membership of any body referred to in question 3.2 above on account of an act of dishonesty,
negligence, incompetence or mismanagement?
3.4 Have you within a period of five years preceding the date of application been found guilty by
any regulatory or supervisory body (whether in the Republic of South Africa or elsewhere) on
account of an act of dishonesty, negligence, incompetence or mismanagement?
3.5 Have you within a period of five years preceding the date of application had your authorisation
to carry on business refused, suspended or withdrawn by any such body on account of an act
of dishonesty, negligence, incompetence or mismanagement?
3.6 Have you within a period of five years preceding the date of application, had any licence
granted by any regulatory or supervisory body referred to questions 3.4 and 3.5 above,
suspended or withdrawn by such body on account of an act of dishonesty, negligence,
incompetence or mismanagement?
Page 23 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.7 Have you at any time prior to the date of application been disqualified or prohibited by any
court of law (whether in the Republic of South Africa or elsewhere) from taking part in the
management of any company or other statutorily created, recognised or regulated body,
irrespective whether such disqualification has since been lifted or not?
3.8 Have you ever been or are you currently an unrehabilitated insolvent or subject to debt review
as contemplated by the National Credit Act, 2005 (Act No. 34 of 2005)?
3.9 Have you ever made any arrangements or composition with your creditors, had your assets
sequestrated, or been involved in proceedings relating to these?
3.10 Have you ever been or are you currently subject to any judgment debt or award that remains
outstanding or has not been satisfied within a reasonable period?
3.11 Have you ever been a senior officer or member of a controlling body of a company or a
shareholder of a company or been in a position to exercise influence in the company that:
(a) Has been the subject of any adverse judgment or award, in the Republic of South Africa or
elsewhere, which remains outstanding or was not satisfied within a reasonable period?
Page 24 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(b) Has, in the Republic of South Africa or elsewhere, made any arrangements or composition
with its creditors, filed for business rescue, had assets repossessed or liquidated, or been
involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing?
Page 25 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ANNEXURE C
QUESTIONNAIRE TO BE COMPLETED IN RESPECT OF THE PROVIDER
1. Details of the Entity and Operational Ability
1.1 Entity Name:
1.2 Registration Number:
1.3 Any other name under which the business is conducted and where is it used:
1.4 Registered address, website address and email address:
1.5 Postal address:
1.6 Telephone and facsimile numbers of the provider:
1.7 Name, physical and, postal addresses and telephone numbers of the provider's bank:
Page 26 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.8 Name, physical and, postal addresses and telephone numbers of the provider's auditor:
1.9 Confirmation that the provider has adequate access to communication facilities including at
least a full-time telephone or cell phone service, and administrative facilities, including
electronic, typing and document duplication facilities.
1.10 Confirmation that the provider has adequate storage and filing systems for the safe-keeping
of records, business communications and correspondence.
2. Specific test to determine the financial soundness of the provider:
If any answers to any of these questions is 'yes' please provide details on separate pages
or in the space provided with proper referencing
2.1 Provide confirmation that the assets of a provider (excluding goodwill and other intangible
assets) must exceed the provider's liabilities (excluding loans validly subordinated in favour of
all other creditors).
Page 27 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.2 Confirm that the provider maintains current assets which are at least sufficient to meet its
current liabilities.
2.3 Has the provider been subject to any judgment debt or award that remains outstanding or has
not been satisfied within a reasonable period?
2.4 Has the provider ever been or currently is under liquidation or provisional liquidation, or subject
to business rescue proceedings as contemplated in the Companies Act or has the provider
ever made or has made arrangements with creditors, or filed for winding-up.
Page 28 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

DECLARATION
I, the undersigned, (insert full first name(s) and surname) hereby certify that, to the best of my
knowledge, the information given in answers to the above questions are true, complete and
accurate and not misleading in any respect.
I undertake that, as long as I continue to be a member of controlling body or senior manager of the
provider, I will notify the Authority of any material changes to, or changes affecting the
completeness or accuracy of the answers to the questions above as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 21 days from the day that the change comes to my attention.
hereby authorise the Financial Sector Conduct Authority, and its duly authorised verification
agent, to request or confirm any personal information as well as any other information that I have
provided in support of my application to any personal data holders (including but not limited to the
South African Police Service, the Government of the Republic of South Africa, industry bodies and
associations, employers and any educational, training, credit bureau and fraud prevention
organisations) for the purpose of verifying my personal credentials and records.
Credential verification types include, but are not limited to, educational qualifications, professional
membership, employment history, employment references including industry employment
registers, consumer credit, criminal records, driver's licence, and fraud prevention checks.
I authorise the personal data holders (including but not limited to the aforesaid institutions) to
furnish information regarding my credentials, whether claimed or not, to the Financial Sector
Conduct Authority and its duly appointed verification agent. I unconditionally indemnify the
Financial Sector Conduct Authority, its verification agent and the personal data holders against any
liability that may result from furnishing information in this regard.
Positlon held:
SIGNATURE
DATE
Page 29 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Documents to be submitted
• a certified copy of the RSA identity document;
• completed Personal Credential Verification Forms;
• the curriculum vitae;
• the signed declaration; and
• the other documents, if any, mentioned in questions in support of the information contained
in this document. (Please indicate the pages of each enclosure and the number of the
question to which the enclosure relates).
Page 30 of 30

--- PAGE BREAK ---

