                                JOINT NOTICE 2 OF 2024

      FINANCIAL SECTOR REGULATION ACT, 2017 (ACT NO.9 OF 2017)

DETERMINATION OF REGULATORY REPORTING IN TERMS OF JOINT STANDARD
2 OF 2020: MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-CENTRALLY CLEARED OVER THE
                  COUNTER DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS

The Financial Sector Conduct Authority and the Prudential Authority, in terms of paragraphs
6A(1) and (2) of Joint Standard 2 of 2020: Margin requirements for non-centrally cleared over the
counter derivative transactions (as amended) (Joint Standard), hereby determine the information
related to the requirements in the Joint Standard, as well as the form, manner, content and
frequency of regulatory reporting, as set out in the Schedule.




Unathi Kamlana                                              Fundi Tshazibana
Commissioner                                                Chief Executive Officer
FINANCIAL SECTOR CONDUCT AUTHORITY                          PRUDENTIAL AUTHORITY

DATE: 11 December 2024                                      DATE: 11/12/24




                                                                                            1
                                         SCHEDULE

DETERMINATION OF REGULATORY REPORTING IN TERMS OF JOINT STANDARD
2 OF 2020: MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-CENTRALLY CLEARED OVER THE
                  COUNTER DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS

1.    Definitions

      In this Notice, “the Act” means the Financial Sector Regulation Act, 2017 (Act No. 9
      of 2017) and “Joint Standard” means Joint Standard 2 of 2020: Margin requirements
      for non-centrally cleared OTC derivative transactions (as amended), and any word or
      expression to which a meaning has been assigned in the Joint Standard bears the
      meaning so assigned to it, and unless the context indicates otherwise, and –

      “Umoja portal” means the secure website portal for electronic submission available
      on the Prudential Authority’s website

2.    Determination of information related to the requirements in the Joint Standard
      and the content and the format of regulatory reporting for initial and variation
      margin requirements

2.1   The regulatory reporting return to be submitted to the Authorities by a provider that
      enters into a non-centrally cleared OTC derivative transaction with a counterparty or a
      foreign counterparty, and a financial institution that is a counterparty in terms of
      paragraphs 6A(1) and (2) of the Joint Standard is determined as the regulatory
      reporting metrics set out in Appendix A of this Notice.
2.2   The reporting determined in this notice applies to a provider that enters into a non-
      centrally cleared OTC derivative transaction with a counterparty or a foreign
      counterparty, and a financial institution that is a counterparty regardless of the
      applicability of the relevant thresholds and minimum transfer amounts prescribed in
      paragraph 3(3) of the Joint Standard.

3.    Manner and frequency of submission

3.1   A provider and a financial institution that is a counterparty must submit the completed
      regulatory returns via the Prudential Authority’s Umoja portal using one of the following
      transmission protocols:
      (a)      Excel upload;
      (b)      In-portal submission; or
      (c)      Machine-to-machine submission using the Umoja portal’s application
               programming interface.

3.2   For the use of methods referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the submission
      template is available on the Umoja portal. For the use of the method referred to in sub-
      paragraph (c), the relevant specifications may be found on the Umoja portal webpage
      as set out in Appendix A.

3.3   A provider and counterparty must submit the regulatory reporting return in the manner
      set out in paragraph 3.1 on a daily T+1 basis by no later than 16:00 South African
      time. In the case of public holidays, the return must be submitted on the first business
      day immediately following the relevant public holiday.



                                                                                             2
4.    Short title and commencement

4.1   This Notice is called the Determination of regulatory reporting in terms of Joint
      Standard 2 of 2020 and takes effect on 1 April 2025.




                                                                                     3
Appendix A - regulatory reporting metrics specification

All relevant information regarding the schematic representation of the regulatory metrics to be
submitted may be accessed using the link below.

https://www.resbank.co.za/content/dam/sarb/what-we-do/prudential-
regulation/transformation-programme/2024/api-document-
2/MR%20Version%201%20Schema%20definitions%20and%20formsets.zip

In addition, Figure 1 below sets out the regulatory reporting metrics to be submitted.

Figure 1: Regulatory reporting metrics




                                                                                             4
