--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
Prudential Authority
Ref.: 15/8/4/2
G1/2019
To: All prospective co-operative financial institutions and registered co-operative
financial institutions
Guidance Note 1/2019 issued in terms of section 45(e) of the Co-operative Banks
Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007) relating to co-operative financial institutions
Application for registration as a co-operative financial institution in terms of the
Co-operative Banks Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007)
Executive summary
Prudential standard - TCFI-01 - Transitional arrangements for co-operative financial
institutions specifies the requirements for registration of a co-operative financial
institution with the Prudential Authority in terms of the provisions of the
Co-operative Banks Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007).
This guidance note is issued to assist prospective co-operative financial institutions
and registered co-operative financial institutions to complete the application
process for registration with the Prudential Authority by providing guidance on the
minimum requirements to be registered as a co-operative financial institution and
the requirements to register a co-operative with the Companies and Intellectual
Property Commission (CIPC).
1.
Interpretation and definitions
1.1
This guidance note should be read in conjunction with the following legislation (as
well as related regulations) and regulatory instrument:
1.1.1
The Co-operatives Act, 2005 (Act No. 14 of 2005) (Co-operatives Act);
1.1.2
The Co-operative Banks Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007) (Co-operative Banks Act);
1.1.3
The Financial Sector Regulation Act, 2017 (Act No. 9 of 2017) (FSR Act); and
1.1.4
Prudential Standard - TCFI-01 - Transitional arrangements for co-operative
financial institutions (Prudential Standard - TCFI-01).
PO Box 8432 Pretoria 0001 • 370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria 0002 • South Africa • Tel +27 12 313 3911 / 0861 127272 • Fax +27 12 313 3758 • www.resbank.co.za

--- Page 2 ---
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
2.1
2.2
3.1
3.1.1
3.1.2
3.1.3
3.1.4
All terms used in this guidance note have the same meaning as defined in the above-
mentioned legislation and regulatory instrument, unless the context indicates
otherwise.
A 'co-operative financial institution' is a co-operative that takes deposits and chooses
to identify itself by use of the name Financial Co-operative, Financial Services
Co-operative, Credit Union or Savings and Credit Co-operative;
A 'prospective co-operative financial institution' is a collective whose members,
through a special resolution, intend to apply to register as a co-operative financial
institution with the Prudential Authority under the Co-operative Banks Act.
A 'registered co-operative financial institution' is a co-operative financial institution
that is registered with the CBDA, in terms of Exemption Notice No. 620 of 2014
issued by the Registrar of Banks (Registrar) in terms of the Banks Act 1990, (Act No.
94 of 1990), and is applying to be registered with the Prudential Authority under the
Co-operative Banks Act.
Introduction
Prudential Standard - TCFI-01 stipulates the requirements for registration of a
co-operative financial institution (CFI) with the Prudential Authority in terms of the
provisions of the Co-operative Banks Act. This guidance note is issued to assist
prospective and registered CFls to complete the application process for registration
with the Prudential Authority.
Registered CFls have until 1 August 2019 to apply for registration with the Prudential
Authority. Registered CFls that have failed to register under the Co-operative Banks
Act after 1 August 2019 and continue to conduct the business of a CFI will be
committing an offence in terms of the Co-operative Banks Act.
Minimum requirements for registration as a co-operative financial institution
Section 40B of the Co-operative Banks Act provides that to qualify for registration, or
to continue to be registered, a CFl must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Prudential Authority, that it:
has the requisite experience, knowledge, qualification and competence to give effect
to its obligations;
has sufficient human, financial and operational capacity to function efficiently and
competently;
meets any prescribed threshold requirements in respect of membership, membership
shares and deposits held; and
meets any other applicable prescribed requirements.

--- Page 3 ---
3.2
Based on the above-mentioned section of the Co-operative Banks Act and the other
legislation and regulatory instrument cited in paragraph 1.1, a prospective or
registered CFl must satisfy the following minimum requirements to be considered for
registration in terms of the Co-operative Banks Act:
3.2.1
3.2.2
3.2.3
3.2.4
3.2.5
3.2.6
Requirements
A minimum of 200 members
R100,000 or more in share capital
Be solvent
Identify itself by use of the name Financial Co-
operative, Financial Services Co-operative,
Credit Union or Savings and Credit Co-
operative.
Common bond e.g.
employed by a common employer or who
are employed within the same business
district; or
common membership in an association or
organisation, including a religious, social,
co-operative, labour or educational group;
reside within the same defined community
or geographical area.
Comply with the co-operative principles
Reference to
Legislation/Regulatory
instrument/Annexure
Prudential Standard -
TCFI-01
Prudential
TCFI-01
Standard
Prudential
TCFI-01
Standard -
Co-operative Banks Act
Prudential Standard
TCFI-01 and the Co-
operative Banks Act.
The Co-operatives Act
defines
co-operative
interpenally accepted
principles of co-operation,
exemplified
by
the
principles adopted by the
International Cooperative
Alliance. See Attachment
for
list
and
explanation
of
the
co-operative principles.

--- Page 4 ---
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.3.1
4.3.2
4.3.3
4.3.5
4.4
4.4.1
4.4.2
4.4.3
4.5
4.6
Registration with the CIPC
This section is applicable to prospective CFls only.
Before a prospective CFI can apply to register as a co-operative, it requires a
conditional approval to be registered as a CFI (deposit-taking) from the Prudential
Authority. Deposit-taking institutions are strictly regulated and require specific
approvals before being allowed to accept deposits.
The following documentation is required by the CIPC to register a co-operative under
the Co-operative Act but must be submitted to the Prudential Authority together
with documentation required by the Prudential Authority (see section 5):
Certified copies of the identity documents of all founder members of the co-operative
and the person lodging the application (Customer Code Owner);
Form CR4, appointment of auditors (attach a letter from an auditor of consent of
appointment) or Form CR8, Exemption from full compliance with auditing
requirements;
Co-operative'); and
Two certified copies of the constitution of the prospective CFl.
In addition to completing the forms required by the CIPC and furnishing the requisite
documentation to the Prudential Authority, the prospective CFl must have completed
the following processes:
held a formation meeting;
created a customer code; and
recorded, in order of preference, the name of the CFl and up to 5 alternate names on
the Form CR5. The prospective CFl has an option to reserve its preferred name with
the CIPC after it has created a customer code.
Further guidance on the processes outlined in paragraphs 4.4.1 to 4.4.3 is attached
hereto as Attachment 2.
The Prudential Authority will forward all documentation required by the CIPC to the
CIPC once it has granted a conditional approval for the registration of the CFl.

--- Page 5 ---
4.7
5.1
5.2
Website oR the CB. CRS and CR as well as a model consitution are available on the
Registration requirements for prospective CFls with the Prudential Authority
This section outlines the requirements that must be complied with by a prospective
CFl in order for the Prudential Authority to register it as a CFl.
To register a CFl, the following must be submitted to Prudential Authority:
5.2.1
5.2.2
5.2.3
5.2.4
5.2.5
5.2.6
Requirement
Form PA 001,
application form
Form
CR1
application form)
Guidance
Every page must be signed by the
chairperson of the board of directors.
Provide an explanation and motivation with
respect to documentation that is not
submitted.
(CIPC CIPC requirement.
Form CR4/CR8 (CIPC CIPC requirement.
from
auditor appointment)
Form CR5 (CIPC form to
CIPC requirement.
reserve name)
Form
PA
membership
register confirming 200
fully paid up members
and at least R100,000 in
shares
Prudential Authority requirement.
2 certified copies of the Model constitution available on the CBDA
prospective
constitution
The following amendments must be made to
the model constitution:
- The definition of 'co-operative financial
institution' must be replaced with
'means
co-operative
financial
institution as defined in the Co-operative
Banks Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007).

--- Page 6 ---
5.2.7
5.2.8
5.2.9
5.2.10
5.2.11
5.2.12
5.2.13
Requirement
Guidance
- Deletion of the definition of 'Regulations'
and 'Rules'.
- The definition of supervisor must be
replaced with ''Supervisor" means the
Prudential Authority.
- The insertion of the term "Prudential
Authority" has the meaning defined in
the Financial Sector Regulation Act,
2017 (Act No. 9 of 2017) •
- Replacement of "Exemption Notice No.
35368" with "Co-operative Banks Act,
2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007)".
Any variations from the model must be
noted and motivated. These will
forwarded to the CIPC.
Certified copies of all CIPC requirement.
founder members identity
documents
Latest certified copies of | Prudential Authority requirement.
bank statement
Member resolution to Prudential Authority requirement.
register with the PA in the
form of minutes
Copy
of
savings policy
proposed
Guideline available on the CBDA website.
Copy.
of
credit/loan
loans CFI
proposed Guideline available on the CBDA website.
policy
Copy of National Credit
This is required before any loans may be
Regulator certificate
issued.
Copy of certificate of If the prospective CFl is a member of a
registration
representative body.
registered representative
body

--- Page 7 ---
6.1
5.2.14
Requirement
Guidance
which
In the business plan the prospective CFl
must discuss the board of directors and
management experience, knowledge and
a short description of
qualifications.
the background to
organisation,
Guidance is provided on the CBDA website.
experience in the
sector and overall
strategy to serve the
target market;
an indication that it
has
the
requisite
experience,
knowledge,
qualifications
and
competence to give
effect
to
obligations
an indication that it
has sufficient humand
financial.
operational capacity
to function efficiently
and competently.
year
financial
forecast
showing
viability plan of the
entity
5.2.15
Product sheet
Form PA 005 Signed Prudential Authority requirement.
Directors
Commitment
form
Registered CFls and registration with the Prudential Authority
This section outlines the requirements for registered CFls to apply i the Prudential
Authority for registration in terms of the Co-operative Banks Act.

--- Page 8 ---
6.2
To register a CFI with the Prudential Authority the following must be submitted:
6.2.1
Requirement
Completed Form PA 001, the
application form
6.2.2
Guidance
Every page must be signed by the
chairperson.
Provide
an
explanation
motivation
in
and
respect
documentation that is not submitted.
Prudential Authority requirement.
6.2.3
Copies of
annual
financial
statements for the last financial
year
Copy of the latest version of Prudential Authority requirement.
constitution.
The following amendments should
be made to the constitution:
- The definition of "co-operative
financial institution" must be
replaced with 'means a co-
operative financial institution
as defined in the Co-operative
Banks Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of
2007).
Deletion of the definition of
"Regulations" and "Rules".
The definition of supervisor
must
replaced with
'''Supervisor"
means
Prudential Authority •
The insertion of the term
''Prudential Authority" has the
meaning defined in
the
Financial Sector Regulation
Act, 2017 (Act No. 9 of 2017)'.
Replacement of "Exemption
Notice No.
35368"
with
"Co-operative Banks Act, 2007
(Act No. 40 of 2007)".

--- Page 9 ---
6.2.4
6.2.5
6.2.6
6.2.7
6.2.8
Requirement
Guidance
If the CFl is unable to hold an
Annual General Meeting or an
Extraordinary
General Meeting
before
submitting
the revised
constitution to
the
Prudential
Authority, the chairperson of the
board of directors should provide an
undertaking that the constitution will
be reviewed at the next Annual
General Meeting to align with the
above-mentioned changes.
Copy of the latest version of the Prudential Authority requirement.
savings policy
Copy of the latest version of the Prudential Authority requirement.
credit/loan policy if providing
loans
Copy of National Credit Regulator If the CFl is providing loans.
certificate
Copy of certificate of registration
If the prospective CFl is a member
to a registered representative
of a representative body.
body
Copy of the latest version of the
In the business plan the CFI should
business plan, which includes:
discuss the board of directors and
a short description of the
management
experience,
knowledge and qualifications.
background
organisation, experience in
the
sector
and overall
strategy to serve the target
market;
an indication that it has the
requisite
experience,
knowledge, qualifications and
competence to give effect to
its obligations
an indication that it has
sufficient human, financial,
and operational capacity to
function
efficiently
and
competently.

--- Page 10 ---
9.
9.1
9.2
10
6.2.9
Requirement
Guidance
3 year financial forecast
showing viability plan of the
entity
Product sheet
Form PA 003 Signed Directors Prudential Authority requirement.
Commitment form
Fees
Currently, no applications fees are payable to the Prudential Authority. Fees for CFls
will be determined once Chapter 16 of the FSR Act is in effect.
Contact details of the Prudential Authority
The application and supporting documentation may be delivered to the Prudential
Authority at:
The Prudential Authority
Licencing of CFls
370 Helen Joseph Street
Pretoria
0001
or e-mailed to sarb-pa@resbank.co.za.
List of forms
CIPC Co-operative Forms
Application for registration of co-operative
Notice of appointment of auditor
Application for reservation of name
Application for exemption from full compliance with auditing requirements
Prudential Authority Forms
PA 001 CFI Application for Registration
PA 002
PA 003
Member Share Register
Board of Directors' Commitments

--- Page 11 ---
11
10.
Co-operative Bank Development Agency guidelines
10.1
The following guidelines are available on the website of the CBDA:
10.1.1 Model Constitution
10.1.2 Business Plan
10.1.3 Financial Forecast
10.1.4 Savings Policy
10.1.5 Loan Policy
10.1.6 Common Bond
10.2
The above-mentioned documentation may be accessed at:
http://www.treasury.gov.za/coopbank/supervisory%20CFls/guidancenotes/Guidelines.
aspx
Haides
Kuben Naidoo
Deputy Governor and CEO: Prudential Authority
Date:
1/ 8/2019

--- Page 12 ---
Attachment 1: Cooperative Principles
Source: International Co-operative Alliance
The cooperative principles are guidelines by which cooperatives put their values into
practice.
1. Voluntary and Open Membership
Cooperatives are voluntary organisations, open to all persons able to use their
services and willing to accept the responsibilities of membership, without
gender, social, racial, political or religious discrimination.
2. Democratic Member Control
Cooperatives are democratic organisations controlled by their members, who
actively participate in setting their policies and making decisions. Men and
women serving as elected representatives are accountable to the membership.
In primary cooperatives members have equal voting rights one member, one
vote) and cooperatives at other levels are also organised in a democratic
manner.
Member Economic Participation
Members contribute equitably to, and democratically control, the capital of their
cooperative. At least part of that capital is usually the common property of the
cooperative. Members usually receive limited compensation, if any, on capital
subscribed as a condition of membership. Members allocate surpluses for any
or all of the following purposes: developing their cooperative, possibly by setting
up reserves, part of which at least would be indivisible; benefiting members in
proportion to their transactions with the cooperative; and supporting other
activities approved by the membership.
4. Autonomy and Independence
Cooperatives are autonomous, self-help organisations controlled by their
members. If they enter into agreements with other organisations, including
governments, or raise capital from external sources, they do so on terms that
ensure democratic control by their members and maintain their cooperative
autonomy.
Education, Training, and Information
Co-operatives provide education and training for their members, elected
representatives, managers, and employees so they can contribute effectively to
the development of their co-operatives. They inform the general public -
particularly young people and opinion leaders - about the nature and benefits of
co-operation.
Page 1 of 2

--- Page 13 ---
6. Cooperation among Cooperatives
Cooperatives serve their members most effectively and strengthen the
cooperative movement by working together through local, national, regional and
international structures.
7. Concern for Community
Cooperatives work for the sustainable development of their communities
Page 2 of 2

--- Page 14 ---
Attachment 2 - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission processes
Source: Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (Adapted for CFS)
1.
Formation meeting
1.1
A formation meeting is held once the founding members have done the initial
ground work to establish the CFI.
1.2
Initial ground work entails the founding members obtaining the commitment from
interested persons to join as members of the CF as well as drafting a
constitution, business plan and various policies that will be required from the CFl.
1.3
The formation meeting must be held with all persons that are interested in
establishing the co-operative.
1.4 At the formation meeting:
1.4.1 a chairperson of the board of directors is nominated for the meeting;
1.4.2 the founding members (the initiators) will outline the aims and objectives of the
proposed co-operative;
1.4.3 all arising questions should be answered;
1.4.4 persons meeting the membership requirements, should be invited to join;
1.4.5 interested persons should be given a membership form to complete;
1.4.6 the signed-up members (persons that have completed the above-mentioned
torm) should contirm the number of directors (trom y to 15 directors) that are
required to direct the CFl;
1.4.7 The signed-up members will then elect the inaugural board of directors.
1.4.8 Complete and sign forms and support documentation required by the Prudential
Authority and the CIPC in order for such to be lodged at a later date.
1.5 The following are also discussed and agreed upon:
1.5.1 The objectives of the CF! (exactly what the CFI Will do);
1.5.2 The proposed name for the CFl as well as alternative names in the event that the
first choice has already been registered by another enterprise. See section 3
below for more information in this regard;
1.5.3 The premises of the CFI (office);
1.5.4 The equipment, premises and other materials required by the CFl;
Page 1 of 3

--- Page 15 ---
1.5.5 the business plan;
1.5.6 the manner in which the CFI will be financed and how the funds will be obtained.
Customer Code
2.1
Before a prospective CFI can transact with the CIPC for an application as a
co-operative, it needs to register as a 'Customer'. A step-by-step guide on
customer registration is available on the CIPC website.
2.2
A customer is any natural or legal person requiring interaction with the CIPC.
A customer code is required in order to perform any transactions on the CIPC
website, and also monitoring applications submitted under the customer code.
2.3
A customer code can be created by generating 6 digits and the registration is tree
of charge.
2.4 A CFI can register as a CIPC customer by doing the following:
2.4.1 Registering online at www.cipc.co.za and clicking on 'Online transacting'.
2.4.2 Visiting the CIPC Office in Pretoria at: Pretoria Service Centre, Shop L309, Level
3, Sunnypark Shopping Centre, Corner Steve Biko and Robert Sobukwe Streets,
Sunnyside, Pretoria.
2.4.3 Visiting the CIPC Provincial Partners (e.g. Provincial Small Enterprise
Development Agency (SEDA)) for assistance to register online with the CIPC.
2.4.4 After submitting the application to register as a CIPC customer, the account will
be activated immediately.
2.5
Registering as a customer automatically establishes a virtual account in the name
of the customer at the CIPC. Before using any fee-carrying service, a customer
must deposit sufficient funds into the virtual account to perform such services. All
CIPC prescribed disclosure and lodgement fees that are applicable will be
deducted from the virtual account. Kindly ensure that the reference number is
clearly indicated, to enable the CIPC to allocate the funds to the relevant
customer account.
2.6
To activate the virtual account (online account), into which you can deposit funds,
e-mail the application with a customer code to Cooperativesonline@cipc.co.za.
2.7
The following payment options also exists:
2.7.1 Electronic deposit (EFT). You need to quote your customer code in the reference
field - the date and sequence number are not required.
Page 2 of 3

--- Page 16 ---
2.1.2 Any ABSA Bank branch. You need to quote your customer code - supplement it
oy the full date of payment and sequence number, to make sixteen characters
e.g. MAKGOS1204201101. Allow 24 hours for funds to be allocated to your
customer code.
2.7.3 Any other bank. Allow 2-3 days for funds to be allocated.
2.8
CIPC bank details are as follows:
Bank
Account Type
Account Name
Account
Number
Branch Name
Payment
Reference
ABSA
Transmission Account
CIPC
4055 68 1017
Van der Walt Street
CUSTOMER CODE DATE (DDMMYYYY) AND 01 (If the
Reference Number is less than six characters long then use
trailing zeros. (CUSTOMER CODEOODATE(DDMMCCYY01)
Reservation of name with the CIPC
3.1
The proposed name of a co-operative must not be the same or so similar to that
of an existing co-operative that it may be misleading; or a name that is
unamirab i shiteading o ulte the deceive Gaut Financial Saices
Co-operative Limited' when the CFl is serving the members residing in Diepsloot,
Soweto. Members should discuss and agree on a name and 5 alternate names
for the co-operative.
The words either "Primary /Secondary/ Tertiary Co-operative Limited" must
always appear at the end of the proposed name, depending what type of
co-operative you are registering. A co-operative must have the words
"co-operative" or "co-op" as part of its name; and the word "Limited" or the
abbreviation "Ltd" as the last word of its name, unless the constitution of a
co-operative does not limit the liability of its members.
3.3
The name must always indicate the main business objective of the co-operative.
To reserve the name, a Form CR5 (Application for Reservation of Name or
Translated Form or Shortened Form of Name) must be downloaded from the
CIPC website and completed according to the above-mentioned guidelines. The
complete form must be emailed to Cooperativesonline@cipc.co.za.
It is an offence for any entity other than a co-operative registered in terms of the
Co-operatives Act to (a) hold itself out as carrying on the business of a registered
co-operative; (b) use or authorise the use of the words "co-operative", "co-op",
"co-operative limited", "co-operative Ltd", or "co-op Ltd" as part of its name.
Page 3 of 3