--- Page 1 ---
South African Reserve Bank
Prudential Authority
Ref.: 15/8/4/2
G2/2019
To: All prospective co-operative financial institutions and registered co-operative
financial institutions
Guidance Note 2/2019 issued in terms of section 45(e) of the Co-operative Banks
Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007) relating to co-operative financial institutions
Guidelines in respect of business plans, savings and loans policies
Prudential standard - TCFI-01 - Transitional arrangements for co-operative
financial institutions specifies the requirements for registration of a
co-operative financial institution with the Prudential Authority in terms of the
provisions of the Co-operative Banks Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007). The
abovementioned requirements include, amongst others, the need to submit a
ousiness plan, savings policy and loans policy, together with the application for
registration.
The Prudential Authority issues this Guidance Note 2 of 2019 which sets out the
guidelines for a business plan, savings policy and loans policy.
1.
Interpretation and definitions
1.1
(as well as related regulations) and regulatory instrument and guidance note:
1.1.1
1.1.2
The Co-operatives Act, 2005 (Act No. 14 of 2005) (Co-operatives Act);
The Co-operative Banks Act, 2007 (Act No. 40 of 2007) (Co-operative Banks
Act);
1.1.3
1.1.4
The Financial Sector Regulation Act, 2017 (Act No. 9 of 2017) (FSR Act);
Prudential Standard - TCFI-01 - Transitional arrangements for co-operative
financial institutions (Prudential Standard - TCFI-01); and
1.1.5
Guidance Note 1 of 2019.
P O Box 8432 Pretoria 0001 • 370 Helen Joseph Street Pretoria 0002 • South Africa • Tel +27 12 313 3911 / 0861 12 7272 • Fax +27 12 313 3758 • www.reservebank.co.za

--- Page 2 ---
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
2.1
2.1.1
2.1.2
2.1.3
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.4.1
All terms used in this guidance note have the same meaning as defined in the
above-mentioned legislation and regulatory instrument, unless the context
indicates otherwise.
A 'co-operative financial institution' is a co-operative that takes deposits and
chooses to identity itselt by use of the name Financial Co-operative, Financial
Services Co-operative, Credit Union or Savings and Credit Co-operative.
A 'prospective co-operative financial institution' is a collective whose members,
through a special resolution,
intend to apply to register as a
co-operative financial institution with the Prudential Authority under the
Co-operative Banks Act.
A 'registered co-operative financial institution' is a co-operative financial
institution that is registered with the Co-operative Banks Development Agency
(CBDA), in terms of Exemption Notice No. 620 of 2014 issued by the Registrar of
Banks (Registrar) in terms of the Banks Act 1990, (Act No. 94 of 1990), and is
applying to be registered with the Prudential Authority under the Co-operative
Banks Act.
Minimum requirements
Prudential Standard - TCFI-01 - details the requirements for registration of a
co-operative financial institution (CFl) with the Prudential Authority in terms of the
provisions of the Co-operative Banks Act. This guidance note is issued to assist
prospective and registered CFls to prepare the following documents, as
applicable, for submission to the Prudential Authority:
business plan;
savings policy; and
loans policy.
This guidance note sets out the minimum requirements against which the
Prudential Authority will assess the provisions of the aforementioned documents
of a prospective co-operative institution or a registered co-operative financial
institution as per Attachment 7: Governance and operational requirements for co-
operative financial institutions, of Prudential Standard - TCFI-01.
The proportional nature and size of the applicant will be taken into consideration
during the review of the documents.
The minimum requirements are captured as follows:
Business plan - Attachment 1;
2.4.2
Savings policy - Attachment 2; and
2.4.3
Loans policy - Attachment 3.

--- Page 3 ---
2.5
3.1
3.2
The business plan, savings and loans policies will be reviewed against the
requirements set out herein. Prospective co-operative financial institutions and
registered co-operative institutions are strongly encouraged to align their savings
and loans policies with these requirements and to ensure that their business
plans contain the minimum requirements set out herein.
Contact
A prospective or registered co-operative financial institution may contact the
Co-operative Banks Development Agency for assistance with their business plan,
savings policy or loans policy by e-mailing: CBDA@treasury.co.za.
The Prudential Authority may also be contacted by sending an e-mail to
SARB-PA@resbank.co.za with the subject line: CFI - Registration Assistance.
Dandy
Kuben Naidoo
Deputy Governor and CEO: Prudential Authority
Date: 16 SEPTEMBER 2019
Encl. 3
The previous guidance note issued was Guidance Note 1/2019, dated 11 March 2019.

--- Page 4 ---
Attachment 1 - Business plan
1.
General
1.1
In terms of Section 1 of the Co-operative Banks Act, a "business plan" means, in
respect of a specified time period, a document that sets out -
1.1.1
its common economic and social objectives and aspirations together with a
description of the short and long term strategies for achieving those needs; and
1.1.2
1.2
1.3
2.
its market strategy, the scope and nature of the business including the types of
products offered), the expected volume of deposits and the details of lending and
investment objectives.
A prospective CFI or a registered CFl must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
PA that it has sufficient human, financial and operational capacity to function
efficiently and competently as a CFl.
The business plan should not be a static document, but must be reviewed
periodically and revised in light of changing circumstances surrounding the
operational requirements and strategies of the CFl.
Elements of a business plan
Organisational overview
a)
b)
History and incorporation
Common bond/membership criteria (kindly refer to the briefing note on
common bond on the CBDA website )
d)
Vision and mission (developmental value)
Business strategy and objectives
Linkages with related representative or support organisations
2.
Corporate governance
a) Board Statement on its organisation's values and culture (aligned with
the Co-operative Principles and refer to Guidance note 1/2019 in this
regard)
b)
Board membership and recruitment (board members will undergo fit
and proper vetting)
C)
Board code of conduct
d)
Skills and competence of directors
Board skills development plan (if applicable)
f) Governance committee
g) Audit/supervisory committee
h) Other board committees and composition
Page 1 of 4

--- Page 5 ---
Markets and members
a) Common bond target markets/membership criteria
b) Current member protiles
c) Potential for growth within the common bond
d) Engagement to date with the potential membership
e) Member mobilisation strategies
Products and services being offered
g) Research and development and future services
Distribution channels
1) Advertising and promotions
4. Savings products
a) Product Features
Reter to the guidance provided in Attachment 2
5. Loans products
a) Product Features
Refer to the guidance provided in Attachment 3
6. Other products
a) Product Features
Please attach related policies and procedures for any other products
Other products should be aligned to section 14 of the Co-operative Banks Act
7. Infrastructure
a) Offices/Branches - Suitability of Premises
b) A copy of the lease agreement for business premises, if not owned
c) Assets owned, i.e. computers, fax machines etc.
d) Letter of support, should the applicant be receiving infrastructure
support from its stakeholders
Management
Schedule detailing management
information including
qualifications and experience
name,
b) Organisation chart/organogram
9. Human resource management
a) Profile of key staff and their qualifications
b) Remuneration policies, if applicable
Page 2 of 4

--- Page 6 ---
Identified skills gap and written plan for staff training and development
to address identified gaps
d) Other policies
10. Management Information System (MIS)/information Communication
Technology (ICT)
a)
Systems/software in use or proposed to be used
b)
System attributes
Back up/business continuity arrangements
d)
Specification of how transactions will be handled on a day-to-day basis
11. Financial performance
a) Projected three year pro-forma financial statements (balance sheet and
income statement) based on the PA Return 051 and 052 respectively)
or newly formed CFls should complete the financial forecast guideline
for start-ups (kindly refer to start-up guidelines on the CBDA website).
b) Latest management accounts (if applicable)
c) Liquidity and cash management
d) Funding strategies (if applicable)
e) Taxation
†) Assumptions that should be provided over the 3 year period should
include:
1) Membership growth
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
Average members savings per month
Cost per share per member
Joining fee
Average interest income to be paid by members on loans
Average interest income to be received from investments
8)
Average interest income to be paid to members on deposit
Percentage of loans to be issued over the three year period
Governance expenses
Personnel expenses
Operational expenses
12) Loan provisioning
13) Other expenses
Focus should be on demonstrating financial viability and sustainability over the
forecast period. Assumptions should be realistic and achievable.
12. Audit
a) Name of external auditor or accountant and contact details
b) Details of engagement with external auditor/accountant
Page 3 of 4

--- Page 7 ---
13. Internal controls
Frequency of internal audit/supervisory committee and reporting
arrangements
b) Summary of responsibilities of internal audit /supervisory committee
14. Other policies
a)
Indicate/list any other policies and procedures in place
15. Pre-registration contracts
Indicate any pre-registration obligations that have been entered into,
e.g. a property lease
Page 4 of 4

--- Page 8 ---
Attachment 2 - Savings Policy
1.
1.1
1.2
2.
2.1
2.1.1
2.1.2
2.1.3
2.1.4
2.1.5
2.1.6
2.1.7
2.1.8
2.1.9
2.1.10
2.1.11
General (
The savings policy should be clearly detined and set torth in such a manner as to
provide effective oversight by the directors and senior employees. The board of
directors of every CFl has the responsibility to approve savings policies and to
oversee implementation thereof.
The savings policy should not be a static document, but should be reviewed
periodically, at least once a year, and revised in light of changing circumstances
surrounding the saving needs of the CFl members as well as changes that may
occur within the CFl itself.
Minimum provisions of a savings policy
The following minimum requirements should be set out in the savings policy of a
CFI:
the objectives of the savings policy;
the manner in which savings products are mobilised and marketed;
persons responsible for policy review and the frequency of the review, which
should not be less than once a year;
the types of savings products offered by the CFl and the minimum requirements
for accessing each savings product;
mechanisms for proof of ownership of savings, notification methods and periods,
e.g. savings books or quarterly savings statements;
procedures for determining and adjusting interest rates and fees as well as
treatment of interest capitalisation (which procedures must include the approval
process for adjusting interest rates and fees);
procedures for opening, closing and withdrawing from a savings account;
development and authorisation of new savings products/services in compliance
with the Co-operative Banks Act;
handling charges for accounts considered to be inactive for a specified time
period or due to the maintenance of minimum balances in the account (dormant
accounts), including the responsibility and monitoring thereof;
procedures for handling dormant accounts;
reactivating dormant accounts, including the responsibility and monitoring
thereof;
2.1.12
handling of charges for unpaid cheques, cancelled and/or disputed debit orders;
Page 1 of 2

--- Page 9 ---
2.1.13
2.1.14
3.1
3.1.1
3.1.2
3.1.3
3.1.4
3.1.5
elimination of inactive accounts with marginal savings which have exceeded the
specified time period; and
the ability of the CFl to cancel savings accounts which have been handled in a
dubious or irregular manner.
Minimum provisions of a savings policy per product type
The following minimum requirements should be set out in the savings policy for
each type of savings product offered by the CFl:
procedures for calculating interests on savings products as well as interest
capitalisation where applicable;
the calculation of interest rates and fees, where applicable;
the criteria to invest in specific products, e.g. age, income source, etc.;
the procedures for withdrawal of monies prior to maturity and penalties to be
charged where applicable; and
product terms, i.e. notice deposit, fixed deposit, etc.
Page 2 of 2

--- Page 10 ---
Attachment 3 - Loans Policy
1.
1.1
1.2
2.
2.1
2.1.1
2.1.2
2.1.3
2.1.4
2.1.5
2.1.6
2.1.7
2.1.8
2.1.9
2.1.10
2.1.11
2.1.12
2.1.13
2.1.14
General
The loan policy should be clearly defined and set forth in such a manner as to
provide effective oversight by the board of directors and senior employees. The
board of directors of every CFI has the responsibility to approve loans policies
and to oversee implementation thereot.
The loan policy should not be a static document, but must be reviewed
periodically, at least once a year, and revised in light of changing circumstances
surrounding the borrowing needs of the CFl members as well as changes that
may occur within the CFl itself or changes in the legislation.
Minimum provisions of a loans policy
The following minimum requirements should be set out in the loan policy of a
CFI:
objective of the loan policy;
persons responsible for policy review and the frequency of review, which should
not be less than once a year;
general fields of lending in which the CFI will engage and the kinds or types of
loans within each general field;
responsibility of the board of directors in reviewing, ratifying, or approving the
loan policy;
procedures for determining and adjusting interest rates and fees (which
procedures must include the approval process for adjusting interest rates and
fees);
procedures to be followed when applying for credit;
basis for determining an amount and period of a loan;
procedures to be followed when evaluating and analysing loan applications;
requirements to stipulate the purpose for which loan is requested;
turnaround time for approving the loans;
loan limits of each loan officer;
loan limits, if any, of a credit committee;
maintenance and review of complete and current credit files on each borrowing
member;
procedures for handling of conflict of interest regarding loans to employees,
board members and related person(s);
Page 1 of 3

--- Page 11 ---
2.1.15
2.1.16
2.1.17
2.1.18
2.1.19
2.1.20
2.1.21
2.1.22
2.1.23
2.1.24
3.
3.1
3.1.1
3.1.2
3.1.3
3.1.4
3.1.5
3.1.6
3.1.7
3.1.8
separation of duties with regards to the loan evaluation and the approval process;
procedures for handling of loan concentration (large exposures in accordance
with the prudential standard);
procedures, which at a minimum, address the goals for portfolio mix and risk
diversification and set out the CFl's plans for monitoring and taking appropriate
corrective action, if deemed necessary, on any concentrations that may exist;
defining delegated authority to approve loans with regards to unsecured risk and
maximum loan sizes;
loan rejection process;
roles and responsibility of the credit committee, including procedures for the
approval of the loans by the board;
procedures for refinancing and/or restructuring of loans, where applicable;
appropriate and adequate collection procedures including, but not limited to,
actions to be taken against borrowers who fail to make timely payments;
loan loss provision, if not a separate policy (delinquency loans must be provided
for in accordance with the prudential standard); and
compliance with the National Credit Act, 2005 (Act No. 34 of 2005), and other
financial regulatory requirements.
Minimum provisions of a loans policy per product type
The following minimum requirements should be set out in the loans policy for
each type of loan product offered by the CFl:
statement regarding the waiting period to qualify for credit;
period and manner in which loan repayments must be made;
manner in which interest rate will be determined (i.e. fixed or variable);
period and manner, including grace periods, on which interest on loans will be
calculated;
calculation of interest and fees;
supporting documentation to be used;
treatment of guarantees, where applicable;
acceptance of security, the completion of documentation when security is
granted, and the treatment thereof in the event of a default;
Page 2 of 3

--- Page 12 ---
3.1.9
3.1.10
3.1.11
3.1.12
3.1.13
stipulation of maximum loan period;
order in which loan repayments are allocated (tees, interest, principal amount
etc.);
determination of how arrear interest and charges will accrue in relation to
outstanding loan balances upon default;
manner in which communication with members will be handled, i.e. at inception,
periodic statements, etc.; and
provision for loan protection, including, but not limited to, credit life policies.
Page 3 of 3