Government Gazette
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

Vol. 449

Cape Town

15

November

2002

No. 24079

THE PRESIDENCY
No. 1453

15 December 2002

It is hereby notified that the President has
assented to the following Act, which is
hereby
published
for
general
information:–
No. 37 of 2002: Financial Advisory and
Intermediary Services Act, 2002.

AIDS HELPLINE: 0800-123-22 Prevention is the cure

(English text signed by the President.)
(Assented lo 15 November 2002.)

ACT
To regulate therendering of certain financial advisoryand intermediary services to
clients; to repeal or amend certain laws; and to provide for matters incidental
thereto.

B

E IT ENACTED by theParliament
follows:-

of the Republic of South Africa.as

TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
Section
I.

Definitions and application

CHAPTER I
ADMINISTRATION OF ACT
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Registrar and deputy registrar of financial services providers
General provisions concerning registrar
Special provisions Concerning powers of registrar
Advisory Committee on Financial Services Providers
Delegations and authorisations

10

CHAPTER I1
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

Authorisation of financial services providers
Application for authorisation
Suspension of authorisation
Withdrawal of authorisation
Lapsing of licence
Exemptions in respect of product suppliers

IS

20

CHAPTER I11
REPRESENTATIVES OF AUTHORISED FINANCIAL SERVICES
PROVIDERS
13.Qualifications
of representativesandduties
providers
14. Debarment of representatives

of authorisedfinancialservices

25

CHAPTER IV
CODES OF CONDUCT
15.Publication
of codes of conduct
16. Principles of codes of conduct

CHAPTER V

5

DUTIES OF AUTHORISED FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS
17.
18.
19.

Compliance officers andcompliancearrangements
Maintenance of records
Accountingandauditrequirements

CHAPTER VI

10

ENFORCEMENT
PART Z
Ombud for$nanciul services providers
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.

Office of Ombud for Financial Services Providers
Appointment of Ombud and deputy ombuds
Funding of Office
Accountability
General administrative powers of Ombud
Disestablishment and liquidation of Office
Powers of Board
Receipt of complaints, prescription, jurisdiction and investigation
Determinations by Ombud
Record-keeping
Report of Ombud
Penalties
Promotion of client education by registrar

15

20

2.5

PART I1

Other enforcement measures
33. Civil
remedies
34.
Undesirable
practices
Regulations
35.
36.Offences
and penalties
37.Consideration
of quantum of fines andpenalties
38.Voluntarysequestration,winding-upandclosure
39. Right of appeal

30

35

CHAPTER VI1
MISCELLANEOUS
40,Saving
of rights
41. Feesandpenalties
42.Exchange
of information
43.Limitation
of liability
44.Exemptions
by registrarandMinister
45.Exemptions.andamendmentorrepeal
46.Commencementand
short title

Schedule
Laws amended or repealed

40

of laws

4s

INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
Definitions and application
1. (1) In this Act, unless the context indicates otherwise“advice” means, subject tosubsection (3)(a),any recommendation. guidance
or proposal of a financial nature furnished, by any means or medium, to any 5
client or group of clients( a ) in respect of the purchase of any financial product; or
(b) in respect of the investment in any financial product: or
(c) on the conclusion of any other transaction, including a loan or cession.
aimed at the incurring of any liability or the acquisition of any right or I O
benefit in respect of any financial product; or
(d) on the variation of any term or condition applying to a financial product,
on the replacement of any such product, or on the termination of any
purchase of or investment in any such product,
irrespective
and
of whether or not such advice15
(i) is furnished in thecourse of or incidental to financialplanning in
connection with the affairs of the client; or
(ii) results in any such purchase, investment. transaction. variation. replacement or termination, as the case may be, being effected;
“Advisory Committee” meansthe Advisory Committee onFinancial Services 20
Providers referred to in section 5;
“application”, in relation to the performance of anyact by theregistrar,
means, except where in a specific case other specific provision is made, an
application referred to in section 3(2);
“auditor” means anauditor registered in terms of the Public Accountants’ and 25
Auditors’ Act, 1991 (Act No. 80 of 1991);
“authorised financial services provider” or “provider” means a person who
has been granted an authorisation as a financial services provider by the issue
to that person of a licence under section 8;
“Board” means the Financial Services Board established by section 2 of the 30
Financial Services Board Act;
“board of appeal” means theboard of appeal established by section 26( 1) of
the Financial Services Board Act;
“client” means a specific person or group of persons, excluding the general
public, whoisor maybecomethesubject
to whom afinancialservice is 35
rendered intentionally, or is the successor in title of such person or the
beneficiary of such service;
“code of conduct” means any published code of conduct contemplated in
section 15;
“collective investment scheme”means acollectiveinvestment
scheme as 40
defined in the Collective Investment Schemes ControlAct, 2002;
“complainant” means, subject to section 26(l)(a)(ii), a specific client who
submits a complaint to the Ombud;
“Complaint” means,subject to section26( l)(a)(iii), aspecificcomplaint
relating to afinancialservicerenderedbyafinancialservicesprovider
or 35
representative to the complainant on or after the date of commencement of
this Act,and
in which complaint it is allegedthattheprovider
or
representative(a) has contravened or failed to comply with a provision of this Act and that
as a resultthereof the complainant has suffered or is likely to suffer 50
financial prejudice or damage;
( b ) has wilfully or negligently rendered a financial service to the complainant which has causedprejudice or damage tothe complainant or which is
likely to result in such prejudice or damage; or
(c) has treated the complainant
unfairly;
55
“compliance officer” means a compliance officer for an authorised financial
services provider referred to in section 17;
“Court” means any court having jurisdiction;
“exempt” means to exempt, on application by a person or on the registrar’s
own initiative, on any of the grounds mentionedin section 44( I)(a), ( 6 )or (c) 60
and (4)fa);

No. 23079

8
~

GOVERNMENT
GAZElTE.

15 NOVEMBER 2002

~~

Act No. 37,2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

“financial product” means, subject to subsection (2)( a ) securities and instruments, includingshares ina company other thana “share
block company” as defined
in the Share Blocks Control Act, 1980 (Act No. 59 of 1980);
5
debentures and securitised debt;
any money-market instrument;
any warrant, certificate,and
other instrument acknowledging,
conferring or creating rights to subscribe to, acquire, dispose of. or
convert securities and instruments referred to in subparagraphs (i),
(ii) and (iii);
10
any “securities” as defined in section 1 of the Securities Services
Act, 2002;
a participatory interest in one or more collective investment schemes;
a long-term ora short-term insurance contract or policy, referred to in the
Long-term Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 52 of 1998), and the Short-term 15
Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 53 of 1998). respectively;
a benefit provided by(i) a pension fund organisation as defined in section 1 (1 ) of the Pension
FundsAct, 1956 (Act No. 24 of 1956), to the members of the
organisation by virtue of membership; or
20
(ii) a friendlysocietyreferred to in the FriendlySocietiesAct, 1956
(Act No. 25 of 1956), to the members of the society by virtue of
membership;
aforeign currency denominatedinvestmentinstrument,includinga
foreign currency deposit;
25
a deposit as definedin section 1(1 ) of the Banks Act. 1990 (ActNo. 9 1 of
1990);
ahealth service benefit provided by a medical scheme as defined in
section 1 (1) of the Medical Schemes Act. 1998 (Act No. 131 of 1998):
any other product similar in nature to any financial product referred to in 30
paragraphs ( a ) to (g), inclusive.
declared
by the
registrar.
after
consultation with the AdvisoryCommittee, by notice in the Gazette to be
a financial product for the purposes of this Act;
any combined product containing one or more of the financial products
35
referred to in paragraphs ( a ) to ( / I ) . inclusive;
any financialproductissued
by anyforeignproductsupplierand
marketed in the Republicand which innature and character is essentially
similar or corresponding toa financial product referred to in paragraphs
( a )to ( i ) , inclusive;
“financial service” means any service contemplated in paragraph (a). ( 0 )or 40
( c )of the definition of “financial services provider”, including any category
of such services;
“Financial Services BoardAct”meanstheFinancial
Services BoardAct,
1990 (Act No. 97 of 1990);
“financial services provider” means any person, other than a representative, 45
who as a regular feature of the business of such person( a ) furnishes advice; or
(b) furnishes advice and renders any intermediary service; or
(c) renders an intermediary service;
“intermediary service” means, subject to subsection (3)(6). any act other than 50
the furnishing of advice, performed by a person for or on behalf of a client or
product supplier( a ) the result of which is that a client may enter into, offers to enter into or
enters into anytransaction in respect of a financial product with a product
55
supplier; or
(b) with a view t(i) buying, selling or otherwise dealing in (whether on a discretionary
or non-discretionary basis), managing, administering,keeping in
safe custody, maintainingor servicing a financial product purchased
by a client from a product supplier or inwhich the client has 60
invested;

i

ction

-

IO

No. 21079

Act No. 37,2002

under

.

. .

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE,

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

(ii) collecting or accounting for premiums or other moneys payable by
the client to a product supplier in respect of a financial product: or
(iii) receiving, submitting or processing the claims of a client against a
product supplier;
“key individual”, in relation to an authorised financial services provider. or a 5
representative, carrying on business as( a ) a corporate or unincorporated body, a trust or a partnership. means any
natural person responsible for managing or overseeing, either alone or
together withother so responsible persons, the activitiesof the body, trust
or partnershiprelating to the rendering of any financial service; or
10
( 6 ) a corporatebody or trust consisting of only one naturalperson as
member, director, shareholder or trustee, means any such natural person:
“licence” means a licence contemplated in section 7( 1);
“licensee” means a financial services provider to whom a licence has been
issued
8;
15
“Minister” means the Minister of Finance;
“Office” means the Office of the Ombud established by section 20( 1);
“Ombud” means( a ) the Ombudfor Financial Services Providersappointed
in terms of
section 21(1); and
20
( h ) for the purposes of sections 2 7 , 2 8 , 3 1 and 39. includes a deputy ombud:
“person” means any natural person, partnership or trust. and includes( a ) any organ of state as defined in section 239 of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. 1996 (Act No. 108 of 1996);
( 6 ) any companyincorporated or registered as suchunder any law:
25
(c) any body of persons corporate or unincorporate;
“prescribe” means prescribe by regulation;
“product supplier” meansany person who issues a financial product by virtue
of an authority,approval or rightgranted to suchpersonunder
any law,.
including the Companies Act. 1973 (Act No. 61 of 1973);
30
“registrar”means theregistrar ordeputy registrar of financialservices
providers referred to in section 2;
”regulation” means a regulation made under section 35;
“representative” means any person who renders a financial service to a client
for or on behalf of a financial services provider, in terms of conditions of 35
employmentor any other mandatoryagreement,
but excludes a person
rendering clerical. technical, administrative, legal. accountingor other service
in a subsidiary or subordinate capacity. which service( a ) does not require judgment on the part of the latter person: or
(b) does not lead a client to any specific transaction in respect of a financial 40
product in response to general enquiries;
“rule” means a rule made by the Board under section 26;
“this Act” includes any regulation, rule or code of conduct, and any notice
given. approval or exemption granted, determination made, requirement or
condition determined or imposed, or any other decision referred to in section 45
3( 1).
( 2 ) For the purposes of this Act a financial product does not include any financial
product exempted fromthe provisions of this Act by the registrar, after consultationwith
the Advisory Committee, by notice in the Gazerre, taking into consideration the extent
to which the rendering of financial services in respect of the product is regulated by any 50
other law.
(3) For the purposes of this Act( a ) advice does not includefactual advice given merely(aa) on the procedure for entering into a transaction in respect
of any 55
financial product;
( b b ) in relation to the description of a financial product;
(cc) in answer to routine administrative queries;
(dd) in the form of objective information about a particular financial
product; or
60
(ee) by the display or distribution of promotional material;

.

..

.

.

GOVERNMENT
24079
I?
GAZETTE.
No.

Act No. 37,2002

15 NOVEMBER
2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

(ii) an analysis or report on afinancialproductwithout
any express or
implied recommendation, guidance or proposal that any particular
transactioninrespect
of theproduct is appropriate to the particular
investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs of a client:
(iii) advicegiven by5
(aaj the board of management, or any board member, of any pension
fund organisation or friendly society referred to in paragraph ( d ) of
the definition of “financial product” in subsection ( I ) to the
members of theorganisation or society on benefits enjoyed or to be
10
enjoyed by such members; or
fbbi the board of trustees of any medical scheme referred to in paragraph
(g) of the saiddefinition of “financial product”,or any board
member, to the members of the medical scheme, on health care
benefits enjoyed or to be enjoyed by such members; or
(iv) any other advisory activity exempted from the provisions of this Act by 15
the registrar, after consultation with the Advisory Committee, by notice
in the Gazette;
( 6 ) intermediaryservice does not include(i) the rendering by a bank or mutual bank of a service contemplated in
paragraph (b)(ii) of the definition of ‘‘intermediary service” where the 20
bank or mutual bank actsmerely as a conduit betweenaclient
and
another product supplier;
(ii) an intermediary service rendered by a product supplier(aa) who is authorised under a particular law to conduct business as a
75
financial institution; and
(bb) where the rendering of such service is regulated by or under such
law;
(iii) any other service exemptedfrom theprovisions of this Act by the
registrar. after consultation with the Advisory Committee. by notice in
30
the Gazette.
(4) The provisions of this Act only apply to the rendering of a financial service in
respect of a deposit referred to in paragraph (f) of the definition of “financial product”
in subsection ( 1 ) with a term not exceeding 12 months by a provider which is a bank as
defined in the Banks Act, 1990, or a mutual bank as defined in the Mutual Banks Act.
1993. to the extent that such application is regulated in the code of conduct contemplated 35
in section 15(2)(b).
(5) Provisions of this Act relating to financial services providers, representatives and
product suppliers apply to any natural person or group of natural persons acting within
the scope of their official duties in the employ of the State, orany organisational unit of
the State. or any public entity, unless the Minister by notice in the Gazette determines 40
otherwise in respect of any such person, group, unit or entity.
(6) This Act must be construed as being in addition to any other law not inconsistent
with its provisions and not as replacin& any such law.

CHAPTER I
ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

45

Registrar and deputy registrar of financial services providers
2. The executive officer and deputyexecutive officer of the Board are respectively the
registrar and deputy registrar of financial services providers and have the powers and
duties provided for by or under this Act or any other law.

General provisions concerning registrar
3, (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any notice given, approval or exemption
granted. determination made, requirement or condition determined or imposed, or any

50

11

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE. 15 NOVEMBER 7002
FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

other decision takenby the registrar under an enabling provision of this Act.is valid only
if it is reduced to adurable
written or printed form or,wherecommunicated
electronically, has been correctly transmitted in a legible form.
( 2 )Whenever the performance of any act contemplated in subsection(1) is sought by
a person under this Act or any other law, application therefor must, subject to any other 5
specific provision of this Act, be made in writing to the registrar and the application
must( a ) be made in the form and manner determinedby or in tenns of this Act, or any
other law, or as otherwise required by the registrar;
(6) be accompanied by10
(i) the fees payable in terms of this Act; and
(ii) the information or documents required by the registrar.
(3) The registrar must in connection with the application of any provision of this Act
to orin respect of any financial productor financial service, consult with any regulatory
or supervisory authority in the Republic. including the Registrar of Medical Schemes. 15
referred to insection 42, whois by law empoweredto perform a regulatory or
supervisory function in respect of such product or service.

Special provisions concerning powersof registrar
4. ( 1 ) When anything is required or permitted to be done by the registrar in terms of
this Act within a particular period, the registrar may on application or on own initiative 30
before the expiry of that period, extend it for any sufficient cause.
( 2 ) The registrar may by notice direct an authorised financial services provider or
representative to furnishthe
registrar, withinaspecifiedperiod.withspecified
information or documents required by the registrar for the purposes of this Act.
(3) ( a ) If any advertisement. brochure or similar documentrelating to the rendering of 25
a financial service by an authorised financial services provider or a representative is
being. or is to be, published by any person, and any such document is misleading. or
confusing. or contains any incorrect statement of fact, the registrar may by notice direct
that person not to publish it, to ceasepublishing it or to effect changes thereto.
(6) A notice contemplated in paragraph ( a ) takes effect on a date specified in such 30
notice after the registrar has(i) provided the person concerned with the
reasons for the notice: and
(ii) afforded the person concerned a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
(4) If there is reason to believe that a person is contravening orfailing to complywith.
or has contravened or failed to comply with, a provision of this Act. the registrar may35
( a ) by notice direct that person(i) to furnish theregistrar within a specifiedperiod with anyspecified
information or documentsin the possession or under the control of that
person and which relate to the subject-matter of such contravention or
failure;
40
(ii) to appearbefore the registrar ata specified time and placefor the purpose
of discussing such matter with the registrar; or
(iii) to make arrangements forthe discharge of all or any part of that person's
obligations in terms of this Act;
(6) if satisfied that in the case concerned significant prejudice or damage to clients 45
has occurred or may occur, apply to a Court for an order restraining such
person from continuing business or dealing with the funds or other property
held by such person on behalf of clients or other persons, pending the
institution by the registrar of an application or action contemplated in section
33( 1 ) and (21, or the exercising by the registrar of such other legal remedy as 50
may be available to the registrar;
( c ) if prejudice or damage may have occurred to a client, refer the matter, together

16

No. 21079

Act No. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZElTE.

15 SOVEMBER 1-002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

with any information or documentation in the registrar’s possession, to the
Office to be dealt with as a complaint by the client concerned.

Advisory Committee on Financial Services Providers
5. ( 1 ) There is an Advisory Committee onFinancial Services Providers which may on
its own initiative, or must at the request of the Minister or the registrar, investigate and
report or advise on any matter relating to financial services providers.
( 2 )The Advisory Committee consistsof a chairperson and other members. including
a representative of the Council for Medical Schemes established by section 3 of the
Medical Schemes Act, 1998(Act No. 131 of 1998), andpersonsrepresentative
of
product suppliers, financial services providers and clients involved in the application of
this Act. appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Board.
(3) The registrar is a member of the Advisory Committee by virtue of the office of the
registrar. but without voting power on matters on which the registrar is to be advised by
the Committee.
(4)A member of the Advisory Committee, excluding the registrar, holdsoffice for the
period determined by the Minister when the appointment is made.
( 5 )A member of the Advisory Committee. excluding the registrar. who is not in the
full-time employment of the State or the Board must be paid such remuneration and
allowances in respect of any expenses incurred in the performance of the functions of
that committee, as may be determined by the Board.
(6) The Advisory Committee may meet or otherwise arrange for the performance of
its functions, and may regulate its meetings as it thinks fit, after consultation with the
Board.
(7) The registrar may submit to the Advisory Committee any information which is in
the registrar’s possession, and which is relevant to any matter which the Committee is
investigating or considering.
(8) The Advisory Committee may call to its assistance such person or persons as it
may deem necessary to assist it. or to investigate matters relating to financial services
providers.
(9)The registrar is responsible for theadministrativeworkincidental
to the
performance of the functions of the Advisory Committee.
(10) The expenditure connectedwith the functions of the Advisory Committee must
be paid out of the funds of the Board, whose approval is required for all expenditure
proposed to be incurred. or actually incurred, by the Committee.
( I 1) For the purposes of any investigation by the Advisory Committee. the provisions
of the Commissions Act,1947 (Act No.8 of 1947), regarding the summoning and
examination of persons and the administering of oaths or affirmations to them, the
calling for the production of books, documents and objects,and offences by witnesses.
apply with the necessary changes.

Delegations and authorisations

5

IO

15

10

25

30

35

30

6. ( 11The Ministermay, on such conditionsas theMinister may determine (which the
Minister may at any time thereafter amend or withdraw). delegate any power conferred
upon the Minister by this Act, excluding the power
to make regulations under section35.
to the head of the National Treasury, any other official in the National Treasury, or the
registrar.
35
( 2 ) The Board may( a ) on such conditions as the Board may determine (which the Board may at any
time thereafter amend or withdraw), delegate to the chairperson. any other
member of the Board or theregistrar, any power conferred on the Board by or
under this Act. excluding the power to make rules under section 26; or
50
( 6 ) so authorise the chairperson. any other member of the Board or the registrar,
to carry out any duty assigned to the Board by or under this Act.
(3) The registrar may( a ) on such conditions as the registrar may determine (which the registrar may at
any time thereafter amend or withdraw), delegate to55
(i) another member of the executive of the Board:

18

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE. IS NOVEMBER 2002

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

(ii) any person who has been appointed by the Board; or
(iii) any person or body recognised by the Board for that purpose,
any power conferred upon the registrar
by or under this Act. including a power
delegated to the registrar under this Act; or
(b) so authorise such member of the executive, person or body to carry out any 5
duty assigned to the registrar by or under this Act.
(4) For the purposes of recognition by the Boardof a body contemplatedin subsection
(3)(a)(iii), the following provisions apply:
Any body of persons which represents a group of persons falling within the
ambit of this Act, may apply to the registrar for recognition by the Board by 10
notice in the Gazette as a representative body for the purpose of performing
the functions determinedby the registrar, after consultation with the Advisory
Committee and the Board;
an application for such recognition(i) must be made in the manner determined by the registrar by notice in the 15
Gazette;
(ii) must be accompanied by the fee determined in terms of this Act;
(iii) must be accompanied by informationproving that theapplicant has
sufficient financial, management, and manpower resources and experience necessary for performing the functions determined by the registrar. 20
and that the applicant is reasonably representative of the relevant group
of persons which it purports to represent;
if theregistrar
is satisfied that the applicanthascomplied
with all
requirements, the application must be submitted by the registrar to the Board
for
25
the Board may(i) grant an application unconditionally; or
(ii) grant an applicationsubject to suchconditions as it deems necessary.
afterhavinggiventheapplicant
a reasonableopportunity to make
submissions on theproposed conditions and having considered any such 30
submissions. and direct the registrar to inform the applicant accordingly:

or
(iii) afterhavinggiventheapplicant
a reasonableopportunity to make
submissionsand havingconsideredanysuchsubmissions,refuse
an
applicationanddirect
the registrar to furnishtheapplicant
with the 35
written reasons of the Board for the refusal;
a body recognised as a representative body contemplated in this subsection
may at any time apply to the Board for the withdrawal or amendment of any
condition imposed on the granting of the application;
the Board may30
(i) grant any application, or portion thereof, referred to in paragraph (e) and
direct the registrar to inform the applicant accordingly; or
(ii) refuse any such application, or portion thereof, and direct the registrar to
furnish the applicant withthe written reasons of the Board for the refusal.
(5) Any delegation or authorisation contemplated in this section does not prohibit the 35
exercise of the power concerned or the carrying out of the dutyconcerned by the
Minister, Board or registrar, as the case may be.
(6) Anything done or omitted to be done underanydelegation
or authorisation
contemplated in this section is deemedto have been done oromitted by the Minister, the
the
Boardthe
or asregistrar,
case may be.
50

CHAPTER I1
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS
Authorisation of financial services providers
7. ( 1 ) With effect from a date determined by the Minister by notice in the Guzerte. a
person may not act or offer to act as a financial services provider unless such person has 55
been issued with a licence under section 8.
(2) Subject tosection 40, a transaction concluded on orafter the date contemplated in
subsection (1) between a product supplier and any client by virtue of any financial
service rendered to the client by a person not authorised as a financial services provider.

20

No. 2-1079

Act No. 37.2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

15 SOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

Application for authorisation

8. (1) An application for an authorisationreferred to in section 7( 1). including an 5
application by an applicant not domiciled in the Republic, must be submitted to the
registrar in the form and manner determined by the registrar by notice in the Gazerre,
and be accompanied by information to satisfy the registrar that the applicant complies
with the requirements for fit and proper financial services providers
or categories of
providers. determined by the registrar by notice in the Gazette, after consultation with 10
the Advisory Committee, in respect of( a ) personal character qualities of honesty and integrity;
Ibi the competence and
operational
ability
of the
applicant
to fulfil the
responsibilities imposed by this Act; and
soundness:
financial
applicant’s
(c) the
15
Provided that wheretheapplicant
is a partnership. a trust or a corporateor
unincorporated body, the applicantmust, in addition, so satisfy the registrar that any key
individual in respect of the applicant complies with the said requirements in respect of( i ) personal character qualities of honesty and integrity; and
competenceability,
(ii) operational and
20
to the extentrequired in order for such key individual to fulfil the responsibilities
imposed on the key individual by this Act.
( 3 )The registrar may( a ) require an applicant to furnish such additional information, or require such
information to beverified, as theregistrar may deem necessary:and35
0 7 ) take into consideration any other information regarding the applicant, derived
fromwhatever source, including theOmbud and any other regulatory or
supervisory authority, if suchinformation isdisclosed to the applicant andthe
latter is given a reasonable opportunity to respond thereto.
The
(3)
registrar must
after
consideration of an application30
(0) if satisfied that an applicant complies with the requirements of this Act. grant
the application; or
f b ) if not so satisfied, refuse the application.
(4) ( a )Where an application is granted, the registrar may impose such conditions and
restrictions on the exercise of the authority granted by the licence. and to be included in 35
the licence. as are necessary, having regard to(i) all facts and information available to the registrar pertaining to the applicant
and any key individual of the applicant;
(ii) the category of financialserviceswhichtheapplicantcouldappropriately
render or wishes to render;
40
(iii) thecategory of financialservicesprovidersinwhichtheapplicant
will be
classified in relation to the fit and proper requirementsmentioned
in
subsection (1): and
(iv) any guidelines provided to the registrar by the Advisory Committee or the
Board.
35
( b ) Conditions andrestrictionscontemplated
in paragraph (a), mag include a
condition that where after the date of granting of the licence(i) any key individual in respect of the licensee’s business is replaced by a new
key individual; or
(ii) any new key individual
is
appointed or assumes office: or
50
(iii) any change occurs in the personal circumstances of a key individual which
affects the fit and proper requirements mentioned in subsection (1) and renders
or may render such person to be no longer a fit and proper person,
no such person may be permitted to take part in theconduct ormanagement or oversight
of the licensee‘s business in relation to the rendering of financial services, unless such 55
person has on application been approved by theregistrar in the mannerand in
accordancewithprocedure
a
determined, afterconsultationwiththeAdvisory
Committee. by the registrar by notice in the Gazerte.
(5) ( a )Where an application is granted, the registrar must issue to the applicant-

22

No. 2.1039

Act No. 37.2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

(i) a licence authorising the applicant to act as a financial services provider. in the
form determined by the registrar by notice in the Gazette; and
(ii) such number of certified copies of the licence as may be requested by the
applicant.
(b)The registrar mayany
at
time
after
the
issue
of a licence5
(i) on application by the licensee or on own initiative withdraw or amend any
condition or restrictioninrespect
of thelicence,after havinggiventhe
licenseea reasonable opportunity to makesubmissions on the proposed
withdrawal or amendment and having considered those submissions, if the
registrar is satisfied that any such withdrawal or amendment is justified and 10
will not prejudice the interests of clients of the licensee: or
(ii) pursuant to an evaluation of a new key individual, or a change in the personal
circumstances of a key individual. referred to in subsection (4). impose new
conditions on thelicensee after havinggiven the licensee a reasonable
opportunity to beheard and havingfurnished thelicensee with reasons.
1s
and must in every such case issuean appropriately amended licenceto the licensee. and
such number of certified copies of the amended licence as may be requested by the
licensee.
(6) Where an application referred to in subsection (1) is refused. the re,’w t r a r mustthereof;
applicant
(a) notify the
and
20
(b) furnish reasons for the refusal.
(7) ( a ) Despitetheprovisions
ofsubsections ( l ) , (2) and ( 3 ) , a person granted
accreditation under section 65(3) of the Medical Schemes Act, 1998 (Act No. 13 1 of
1998), must. subject to this subsection, be granted authority to render as a financial
services provider the specific financial service for which the person was accredited. and 35
must be issued with a licence in terms of subsection (5).
(6) The registrarmustbesatisfiedthataperson
tobe grantedauthorityunder
paragraph (a). and any key individual of such person, comply with the applicable fit and
proper requirements determined under subsection (1).
(c) A person granted authority and licensed as contemplated in paragraph ( a ) . together 30
with any key individual. are thereafter subject to the provisions of this Act.
( d ) If a licence(i) is refused in terms of this section;
(ii) is suspended in terms of section 9;
is (iii)
withdrawn
in
terms of section 10; or
35
(iv) lapses in terms of section 11,
the accreditation referred to in paragraph (a) is deemed to have lapsed in terms of the
Medical Schemes Act, 1998, or to have been suspended or withdrawn. as the case may
be.
(e) If an accreditation referred to in paragraph ( a ) is suspendedor withdrawn or lapses 40
in terms of the Medical Schemes Act, 1998, the licence
issued in terms of that paragraph
is deemed to have been suspended or withdrawn or to have lapsed in term5 of sections
9, 10 and 11, respectively, of this Act.
(8) A licensee must( a ) display a certified copy of the licence in a prominent anddurable manner 35
within every business premises of the licensee;
(b) ensure that a reference to the fact that such a licence is heldis contained in all
business documentation, advertisements and otherpromotional material;
( c ) ensure that the licence is at all times immediately or within a reasonable time
available for production to any person requesting proof of licensed status 50
underauthority of a laworfor thepurpose of entering into a business
relationship with the licensee.
(9) A person may not in any manner make use of any licence or copy thereof for
business purposes where the licence has lapsed or has been withdrawn or. subject to
section 9(2). during any time when the licensee is under provisional or final suspension 55
contemplated in section 9.

i

24

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE. IS NOVEMBER 2002

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

FINANClALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

Suspension of authorisation
9. ( 1 ) The registrar may, subject to subsection (2), at any time suspend any licence if
satisfied on the basisof available facts and information, that the licensee no longer meets
the requirements contemplated in section 8, and irrespective of whether the registrar has
taken or followed, or is taking or following, any step or procedure referred to in set- 5
tion 4.
( 2 ) ( a ) Before suspending any licence, the registrar must inform the licensee of(i) the intention to suspend and the grounds therefor;
(ii) the intended period of the suspension: and
(iiil terms
any
to be attached to the suspension. including10
(aa) a prohibition on concluding any new business by the licensee asfrom the
effective date of the suspension and, in relation to unconcluded business.
such measures as the registrar may determine for the protection of the
interests of (clients of the licensee: and
ibb) terms
designed
to facilitate the lifting of the
suspension,
1s
and must give the licensee a reasonable opportunity to make a submission in response
thereto.
( b ) The registrarmust consider any such response.and may thereafter decide to
suspend. or not to suspend the licence, and must notify the licensee of the decision.
(c) Where the licence is suspended, the registrar must make known the terms of the 20
suspension or subsequent lifting thereof, by notice in the Gazerre and. if necessary, by
means of any other appropriate public media announcement.
( 3 ) Despite the provisions of subsection ( 2 ) . theregistrar
may under urgent
circumstances where the registrar
is satisfied on reasonable grounds that substantial
prejudice to clients or the general
public
may occur35
/ a ) provisionally suspend a licence. and inform the licensee of the(i) groundstherefor;
(ii) period of the suspension; and
(iii) terms referred to in subsection (2)(a)(iii) attached to the suspension.
andgivethelicensee
a reasonableopportunity to respondtheretoand
to 30
provide reasons why the provisional suspension should be lifted or why the
period and terms should be changed; and
( b ) make knownsuchprovisionalsuspension
by notice in the Gn:erfe and. if
necessary, by means of any other appropriate public media announcement.
(4) ( a ) The registrarmustwithin a reasonabletime after receipt of any response 35
contemplated in subsection ( 3 ) ( a )consider the response. and may thereafter decideto(i) lift the provisional suspension; or
(ii) render the suspension final.
and must inform the licensee accordingly.
( b )The registrar must make known the terms of any such final suspension, or the 30
lifting thereof, by notice in the Guzetre and, if necessary. in any other appropriatepublic
media announcement.
( 5 ) Duringanyperiod
of suspension, whetherprovisional or final. the licensee
concerned is for the purposes of this Act regarded as a person who is not authorised to
act as a financial
provider. services
15
Withdrawal of authorisation
10. ( 1 ) The registrar may at any time withdraw any licence (including the licence of
a licensee under provisional or final suspension in terms of section 9), if satisfied on the
basis of available facts and information that the licensee( a ) did not. when app1,ying for the licence, make a full disclosure
of all relevant 50
information to the registrar, or furnished false or misleading information; or
( b ) has since such issue
contravened or failed to comply with any provision of this
Act in a material manner.
( 2 )The provisions of-

26

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

section 9(2). regarding a decision to suspend an authorisation (excluding such
provisions relating to periods and terms); and
Ib) section 9(3) and (4), regarding a provisionalsuspension followed by a
decision to lift or to finalise it, as the case may be,
apply with the necessary changesto awithdrawal
of alicence contemplated in
subsection (1).
( 3 ) ( a )A person whose licence hasbeen withdrawn under this section is debarred for
a period specified by the registrar from applying for a new licence.
(b)The registrar may, on good cause shown, vary any such period.

5

Lapsing of licence

10

(a)

11. ( I ) A licence lapses-l a ) where the licensee, being a natural person(i)becomes permanentlyincapable of carryingon anybusiness due to
physical or mental disease or serious injury;
(ii) is finally sequestrated; or
15
(iii)
dies;
(b) where the licensee, being any other person, is finally liquidated or dissolved:
( c i where the business of the licensee has become dormant: and
(d) in any other case., where the licensee voluntarily and finally surrenders the
registrar.
licence to the
30
( 2 ) The registrar must be advised by the licensee, any key individual of the licensee.
or another person in control of the affairs of' the licensee, as the case may be, of the
lapsing of a licence and the reasons therefor and the registrar
may make known any such
lapsing of a licence by notice in the Gazette and, if necessary. by means of any other
public
appropriate
announcement. media
3

Exemptions in respect of product suppliers
12. ( 1) The registrar may exempt a product supplier who is authorised or approved
under a particular law to conduct businessas a financial institution. and who is required
to apply for authorisationundersection
8, from submittingsome or all of the
information otherwise required from an applicant: Provided that the product supplier30
( a ) applies for exemption when submitting the application: and
( b ) complies with the requirementsof the registrar with regardto information still
required.
( 2 ) Authorisationgranted to aproduct supplier contemplated in subsection ( 1 ) is
supplementary to, but separate from, the supplier's authorisation or approval under a 35
particular law as a financial institution.

CHAPTER 111
REPRESENTATIVE3 OF AUTHORISED FINANCIAL SERVICES
PROVIDERS
Qualifications of representatives and duties of authorised financial services 10
providers
A person may not-carry on businessby rendering financial services to clients for or on behalf of
any person who(i) is not authorised as
financial
a services
provider;
and
15
(ii) is not exempted from the application of this Act relating to the rendering
of a financial service; or
act as a representative of an authorised financial services provider. unless such
person-

28

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

No. 21079

Act No. 37,2002

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIAL ADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

(i) is able to provide confirmation, certified by the provider. to clients(aa) that a service contract or other mandatory agreement. to represent
the provider, exists; and
(bb)that the provider accepts responsibility for those activities of the
representativeperformedwithinthe
scope of, or inthe course of 5
implernenting, any such contract or agreement; and
(ii) if debarredas contemplated in section 14, complies with therequirements determined by the registrar, after consultation with the Advisory
Committee, by notice in the Gazerre, for thereappointment of a debarred
person as a
representative.
10
(2) An authorised financial services provider must( a ) at all times be satisfied that the provider’s representatives, and key individuals
of such representatives, are, when rendering a financial service on behalf of
the provider, competent to act, taking into consideration requirements similar
to those contemplated in paragraphs (a)and (b)of section 8( 1 ) and subsection 15
( 1 )(b)(ii) ofthis section, where applicable: and
(bi take suchstepsas may be reasonable in thecircumstancesto ensure that
representatives comply with any applicable code of conduct as well as with
other applicable laws on conduct of business.
( 3 ) The authorised financial services provider must maintain a register of represen- 30
tatives. and key individuals of such representatives. which must be regularly updated
and be available to the registrar for reference or inspection purposes.
(4) Such register must(a) contain every representative’s or key individual’s name and business address,
and state whether the representative acts for the provider as employee or as 25
mandatory; and
( b ) specify the categories in which such representatives are competent to render
financial services..
( 5 ) The registrar may requireinformation from the authorisedfinancialservices
provider so as to enable theregistrar to maintainandcontinuously update acentral 30
register of all representatives and key individuals.
(6) Apersonwho
on the date contemplated in section 7(1) complies withthe
requirements of this Act for a representative and on such date acts as employee or
mandatory for any person who on or after such date becomes an authorised financial
services provider. is,for the purposes of
this Act.but subject to the provisions of this Act 35
relating to representatives, regarded asa representative.

Debarment of representatives
14. (1) An authorised financial services provider must ensure that any representative
of the provider who no longer complies with the requirements referred to in section
13(2)(a).is prohibited by such provider from rendering any new financial service by 40
withdrawing any authority to act on behalf of the provider, and that the representative’s
name, and the names of the key individuals of the representative, are removed from the
register referred to in section 13(3): Provided that any such provider must immediately
take steps to ensure that the debarment does not prejudice the interests of clients of the
representative,andthatanyunconcludedbusiness
of therepresentative is properly 45
concluded.
(2) For the purposes of the imposition of a prohibition contemplated in subsection (l),
the authorised financial services provider must have regard t e
(a) information regarding the conduct of the representative as provided by the
50
registrar. the Ombud or any other interested person; and
(b) any contravention of, or failure to comply with, any relevant provision of this
Act by the representative.
(3)The authorised financial services providermust within a period
of 30 days afterthe
removal of the names of a representative and key individuals from theregisteras
55
contemplated in subsection ( I ) . inform the registrar in writing thereof.

30

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE,

No. 2107Y

Act No. 37,2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARY
ACT. 2002

15 NOi’EMBER 2002

SERVICES

CHAPTER IV
CODES OF CONDUCT
Publication of codes of conduct

referred

15. (1) (a) The registrar must, after consultation with the Advisory Committee and
withrepresentative bodies of the financialservicesindustryandclient
and consumer 5
bodies determined by the Advisory Committee, draft a code of conduct for authorised
financial services providers.
( b )The code must, after consultation, be published by notice in the Gazette. and. on
any such publication. becomes binding on all authorised financialservices providers and
representatives
to therein.
10
(2) (a) Different codes of conduct may be so drafted in respectof different categories
of authorised financial services providers and their operations in different sectorsof the
financial services industry, and different categoriesof representatives.
(b)A code of conduct must be drafted
for the renderingof a financial servicein respect
of a deposit referred to in paragraph cf) of the definition of “financial product“ in section 15
I ( 1) with a termnot exceeding 12 months by a provider whichis a bank as defined in the
Banks Act. 1990 (ActNo. 94 of 1990), or a mutual bank as defined in the Mutual Banks
Act, 1993 (Act No. 124 of 1993).
(3) Such codes of conduct may from time to time be amendedor replaced in
accordance
with
the out
procedure
set
in subsection (1).
20

Principles of code of conduct

16. ( 1 ) A code of conduct must be drafted insuch a manner as to ensurethat the clients
being rendered financial services will be able to make informed decisions. that their
reasonable financial needsregardingfinancialproducts
will beappropriately and
suitably satisfied and that for those purposes authorised financial services providers. and 25
their representatives, are obliged by the provisions of such code t o (a) act honestly and fairly, and with due skill. care and diligence, in the interests
of clients and the integrity of the financial services industry;
( b ) have and employeffectivelytheresources,procedures
and appropriate
technological systems for the proper performance of professional activities: 30
( c ) seek from clients appropriateandavailableinformationregardingtheir
financial situations, financial product experience andobjectives in connection
with the financial service required;
( d ) act with circumspection and treat clients fairly
in a situation of conflicting
interests;
and35
( e ) comply with all applicable statutory or common law requirements applicable
to the conduct of business.
(2) A code of conduct must in particular contain provisions relating to(a) the making of adequate
disclosures
of relevantmaterialinformation.
includingdisclosures of actual or potential own interests, in relation to 40
dealings with clients;
( 6 ) adequateandappropriaterecord-keeping;
( c ) avoidance of fraudulent and misleading advertising. canvassing and marketing;
( d ) propersafe-keeping,separationandprotection
of funds and transaction 35
documentation of clients;
( e ) where appropriate, suitable guarantees or professional indemnity or fidelity
insurance cover, andmechanisms foradjustments of such guarantees or cover
by the registrar in any particular case; and
cf) any other matter which is necessary or expedient to be regulated in such code 50
for the better achievement of the objects of this Act.

32

GOVERNMElVT
KO. 24079
GAZETTE.

Act No. 37,2002

15 NOVEMBER
2002

FINANCIAL ADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

CHAPTER V
DUTIES OF AUTHORISED FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS
Compliance officers and compliance arrangements
17. ( I ) ( a ) Any authorised financial servicesprovider with more than one key
individual or one or more representatives must, subject to section 35(l)(c).appoint one
or more compliance officers to monitor compliance with this Act by the provider and
such representative or representatives, particularly in accordance with the procedures
contemplated in subsection ( 3 ) , and to take responsibility for liaison with the registrar.
( b ) Such person may be a director, member, auditor. trustee, principal officer. public
officer or company secretary of any such provider. or any other person with suitable
qualifications and experience determined by the registrar by notice in the Gu:,erte. after
consultation with the Advisory Committee.
( c ) The provisions of section 19(5) and (6), relating to an auditor of an authorised
financial services provider, apply with the necessary changes to a compliance officer.
( 2 ) A compliance officer must be approved by the registrar in accordance with the
criteria and guidelines determined by the Advisory Committee.
(3) An authorised financial services provider must establish and maintain procedures
to be followed by the provider and any representative concerned. in order to ensure
compliance with this Act.
(4) A compliance officer or.in the absence of such officer. the authorised financial
services provider concerned. must submit reports to the registrar in the manner and
regarding the matters. as from time to time determined by the registrar by notice in the
Gazette for different categories of complianceofficers. afterconsultation with the
Advisory Committee.
( 5 )The provisions of subsections (3) and (4) apply with the necessary changes to any
authorised financial servicesprovider who carries on a business with only one key
individual or without any representative.

5

10

I5

20

25

Maintenance of records
18. An authorised financial services provider must, except to the extent exempted by
the registrar,maintainrecords
for a minimum period of five years regarding30
( a ) known premature cancellations of transactions or financial products by clients
of the provider;
(6) complaints receivedtogetherwith
an indicationwhether or not any such
complaint has been resolved;
( c ) thecontinuedcompliance with the requirements referred to in section 8;
35
( d ) cases of non-compliance withthisAct,
and the, reasons forsuch noncompliance; and
(e) the continued compliance by representatives with the requirements referred to
in section 13(1 ) and ( 2 ) .
Accounting and audit requirements

and

40

19. ( I ) Except to the extent exempted by the registrar. an authorised financial services
provider must. in respect of the business carried on by the provider as authorised under
the provider’s licence( a ) maintain full and proper accounting records on a continual basis, brought up
monthly;
to date
45
( b ) annuallyprepare, I n respect of the relevant financial year of the provider,
financial statements reflecting, with suitable particulars, the financial position
of the business as at the last day of the financial year in question. and the
results of the operations and cash flow information for the period then ended.
(2) ( a )An authorised financial services provider must cause the statements referred to SO
in subsection ( l ) ( b )to be audited and reportedon by an external auditor approvedby the
registrar. in order to produce-

34

No. 21079

Act Irio. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

I5 SOVEbIBER 1002

FINANCIAL ADVISORY AND INTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

( i ) an audited balance sheet, including such notes thereon or documents attached
thereto as may be necessary;
(ii) an audited incomestatement,includingsuch
notesthereon or documents
attached thereto as may be necessary; and
(iii) an audited statement of the source and application of funds.
(hi The financial statements must(i) be prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting practice;
(ii) fairly represent the state of affairs of the provider’s business:
(iii) refer to any materialmatterwhich
has affected or is likely to affect the
financial affairs of the provider; and
(iv) be submitted by the authorised financial services provider to the registrar not
later than six months after the end of the provider’s financial year or such
longer period as may be allowed by the registrar.
(3) The authorised financial services provider must maintain records in accordance
with subsection (l)(a)in respect of money and assetsheld on behalf of clients. and must.
in addition to and simultaneously with the financial statements referred to in subsection
( 2 ) . submit to the registrar a report, by the auditor who performed the audit, which
confirms. in the form and manner determined by the registrar by notice in the Gnretre for
different categories of financial services providers( ( I ) the amount of money and assets at year end held by the provider on behalf of
clients;
(hl that such money and assets were throughout the financial year kept separate
from those of the business of the authonsed financial services provider and, in
the case of non-compliance, the extent thereof: and
( r ) any other information required by the re,‘o~strar.
(4) Despite anything to the contrary contained in any law. the auditor of an authorised
financial services provider must report to and inform the registrar
in writing of any
irregularity or suspectedirregularity in theconduct or the affairs of the authorised
financial services provider concerned of which the auditor became aware in performing
functions as auditor and which, in the opinion of the auditor. is material.
( 5 ) If the appointment of an auditor of an authorised financial services provider is
terminated( n l the auditormustsubmit
tothe registrarastatement
of what the auditor
believes to be the reasons for that termination: and
(6J if the auditor would. but for that termination. have had reason to submit to the
registrar a report contemplated in subsection ( 3 ) ,the auditor must submit such
a report to the registrar.
(6) ( a )The registrar may by notice require an authorised financial ser\.ices provider to
terminate the appointment of an auditor of that provider. if the auditor concerned no
longer complies with therequirements consideredwhen the auditorwas approved by the
registrar in terms of subsection ( 2 ) ( a )or otherwise fails tocomply with any provision of
this section in a material manner.
( b )A notice contemplated in paragraph (a) takes effect on a date specified in such
notice and may only be sent out after the registrar(i) has given the authorised financial services provider and the auditor concerned
the reasons why the notice is to be issued; and
(ii) has given the authorised financial services provider and the auditor concerned
a reasonable opportunity to be heard; and
(iii) has consideredany submissionsmade by or on behalf of the authorised
financial services provider or the auditor concerned.

CHAPTER VI
ENFORCEMENT

..

PART Z

Ombud for financial services providers
Office of Ombud for Financial Services Providers
20. ( 1 ) There is an office to be known as the
Services Providers.

Office of the Ombud for Financial

55

-~
I

36

.

GOVERNMENT
No. 23079
GAZETTE.

Act No. 37,2002

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

(2) The functions of the Office are performed by the Ombud for Financial Services
Providers.
(3)Theobjective of theOmbudistoconsider
anddispose of complaints in a
procedurally fair, informal, economical and expeditious manner and
by reference to
what is equitable in all the circumstances, with due regard to5
( a ) the contractual arrangement or other legal relationship between the complainant and any other party to the complaint; and
(b) the provisions of this Act.
(4) When dealing with complaints
in terms of sections 27 and 28 the Ombud is
independent and must be impartial.
10

Appointment of Ombud and deputy ombuds
21. (1) The Board, after consultationwith the Advisory Committee( a ) must appoint as Ombud a person qualifiedin law and who possesses adequate
knowledge of the rendering of financial services;
( 6 ) may appoint one or more persons qualified in law and who possess adequate 15
knowledge of the rendering of financial services, as deputy ombud.
(2) The remuneration and other terms of appointment of the Ombud and a deputy
ombud must be determined by the Board.
(3) The Ombud or deputy ombud may at any time resign
by submitting a written
resignation to the Board at least three calendar months prior to the intended date of
20
vacation of office, unless the Board allows a shorter period.
(4) TheBoardmayongoodcauseshown,
after consultationwiththeAdvisory
Committee,removetheOmbudoradeputyombudfrom
office ontheground
of
misbehaviour,incapacityorincompetence,afteraffordingthepersonconcerneda
reasonable opportunity to be heard.
25

Funding of Office
22. (1) The funds of the Office consist of( a ) funds provided by the Board on the basis of a budget submitted by the Ombud
to the Board and approved by the latter; and
(b) funds accruing to the Office from any other source.
30
( 2 ) The Ombud must deposit all funds in an account opened with a bank registered
under the Banks Act, 1990 (Act No. 94 of 1990).
(3) The Ombud must utilise such funds for the defrayal of expenses incurred in the
performance of functions under this Act, and may invest funds which are not required
for immediate use.
35
(4) The financial year of the Ombud ends on 31 March in every year.
(5) Funds standing to the credit
of the Ombud in the account mentionedin subsection
(2) at the end of the financial year, as wellas funds invested under subsection (3), must
be carried forward to the next financial year.

Accountability

40

23. (1) The Ombud is the accounting officer in respect of all funds received and all
payments made in respect of expenses incurred by the Office.
( 2 ) The Ombud as accounting officer must(a) keep a full and correct record ofall funds received and payments made. and
of
45
all assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the Office;
(b) as soon as is practicable, but not later than three months after the of
endevery
financial year, prepare annual financial statements reflecting, with appropriate
particulars, all funds received and payments made during, and
all such assets,
liabilities and transactions at the end of, the relevant financial year.
(3) The recordsand financial statements mentioned in subsection (2) must be audited 50
by the Auditor-General.

38

No. 24079

Act NO.37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

General administrative powers of Ombud
24. The Ombud may for the performance of functions in the Office and as a charge
against or for the benefit of the funds of the Office, as the case may be( a ) hire, purchase or otherwise acquireproperty, and let, sell or otherwise dispose
of property so purchased or acquired;
5
(b) enter into an agreement with any person for the performance of any specific
act or function or the rendering of specific services;
(c) insure the Office against any loss, damage, risk or liability;
(d) employ persons to assist the Ombud, determine their terms of appointment
and, subject to such conditionsas may be determinedby the Ombud. delegate 10
or assign to any such employee,including a deputyombud, any administrative
function vesting in the Ombud in terms of this Part:
(e) obtain such professional advice as may reasonably be required: and
(f) in general. do anything which is necessary or expedient for the achievement of
the objective of the Ombud.
1s
Disestablishment and liquidation of Office

25. (1) The Office may not bedisestablished or liquidatedexcept by an Act of
Parliament.
( 2 ) In the event of any such disestablishment or liquidation, the surplus assets ofthe
Office (if any) accrue to the Board.
20
Powers of Board
26. ( 1 ) The Board may. after consultation with the Advisory Committee. make rules.
including different rulesin respect of different categories of complaints or investigations
by the Ombud, regardingany matter which is required or permitted under this Act to be regulated 35
by rule;
the category of persons qualifying as complainants;
the type of complaint justiciable by the Ombud, including a complaint
relating to a financial service rendered by a person not authorised as a
financial servicesprovider
or apersonacting
on behalf of such 30
first-mentioned person;
the rights of complainants in connection with complaints. including the
manner of submitting a complaint to the authorised financial services
provider or representative concerned;
the rights and duties of any such provider or representative on receipt of 35
any complaint, particularly in connection with the furnishing of replies to
the complainant;
the rights of a complainant to submit acomplaint to the Ombud where the
complainant is not satisfied with any reply receivedfrom the provider or
40
representative concerned;
the circumstances under which a complaint may be dismissed without
consideration of its merits;
the power of the Ombudto fix a timelimit for any aspect of the
proceedings before the Ombud and to extend a time limit;
payment to the Office by the authorised financial services provider
or 45
representative involved in any complaint submitted to the Ombud,
o f case fees
in respect of the consideration of the complaint by the Ombud;
(c) liaisonbetweenthe Ombud and the registrar. and administrative duties of
thosefunctionariesregardingmutualadministrativesupport.
exchange of
information andreports,other
regular consultations and avoidance of 50
overlapping of their respective functions; and
(d) any other administrative or procedural matter necessary or expedient for the
better achievement of the objects of this Part, but which is not inconsistent
with a provision of this Act.
( 2 ) The Board must5s

10

No. 23079

Act No. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

IS NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIAL ADVISORY ANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

(1) detracts from or affectsthe
independence of the Ombud in any material way:
(6) publish rules made under subsection (1) in the Gazerre.
( a ) ensure that no rule made undersubsection

Receipt of complaints, prescription, jurisdiction and investigation

27. ( 1 ) On submission of a complaint to theOffice, the Ombud must5
( a ) determinewhether therequirements of the rulescontemplated in section
26( 1)(a)(iv) have been complied with;
(6) in thecase of anynon-compliance, act inaccordancewiththe
rules made
under that section; and
( c ) otherwise officially receive the complaint if it qualifies as a complaint.
10
(2) Official receipt of a complaint by the Ombud suspendsthe running of prescription
in terms of the Prescription Act, 1969 (Act No. 68 of 1969), for the period after such
receipt of the complaint until the complaint haseither been withdrawn, or determined by
the Ombud or the board of appeal, as the case may be.
(3) The following jurisdictional provisions apply to the Ombud in respect of the 15
investigation of complaints:
( a ) (i) The Ombud must decline to investigate any complaint which relates to an
act or omission which occurred on or afterthe date of commencement of
this Act but on a date more than three years before the date of receipt of
such complaint by the Office.
20
(ii) Where the complainant was unaware of the occurrence of the act or
omission contemplated in subparagraph (i). the period of threeyears
commences on the date on which the complainant became aware or
ought reasonably to have become aware of such occurrence. whichever
occurs first.
25
(b) (i) The Ombud must decline to investigate any complaint if. before the date
of official receipt of the complaint, proceedings have been instituted by
the complainant in any Courtinrespect
of amatterwhichwould
constitute the subject of the investigation.
(ii) Where any proceedings contemplated in subparagraph (i) are instituted 30
during any investigation by the Ombud. such investigation must not be
proceeded with.
( e ) The Ombud may on reasonable grounds determine that it is more appropriate
that the complaint be dealt with by a Court or through any other available
dispute resolution process. and decline to entertain the complaint.
35
(4) The Ombudmust not proceed to investigate a complaint officially received. unless
the Ombud(a) has in writing informed every other interested party to the complaint of the
receipt thereof;
( h ) is satisfied that all interested parties have been provided with such particulars 40
as will enable the parties to respond thereto; and
(c) has provided all interested parties the opportunity to submit a response to the
complaint.
( 5 ) The Ombud( a ) may. in investigating or determining an officially received complaint. follow 45
and implement any procedure (including mediation) which the Ombud deems
appropriate, and may allow any party the right of legal representation;
(b) must, in the first instance.exploreany reasonable prospect of resolving a
complaint by a conciliated settlement acceptable to all parties;
(c) may, in order to resolveacomplaint
speedily by conciliation, make a 50
recommendation to the parties, requiring them to confirm whether or not they
accept the recommendation and. where the recommendation is not accepted
by a party, requiring that party to give reasons for not accepting it: Provided
that where the parties accept the recommendation, such recommendation has
the effect of a final determination by the Ombud, contemplated in section 55
28( 1);
( d ) may, in a manner that the Ombud deems appropriate, delineate the functions
of investigation and determination between variousfunctionaries of the
Office;
( e ) may, on terms specified by the Ombud, mandate any person or tribunal to 60
perform any of the functions referred to in paragraph (d).
(6) For the purposes of anyinvestigation or determination by the Ombud. the

12

GOVERNMENT
No. 21079
GAZETTE.

Act No. 37,2002

15 KOVEMBER
2002

FINANClALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

provisions of the Commissions Act, 1947 (Act No. 8 of 1947), regarding the summoning
and examination of persons and the administering of oaths or affirmations to them. the
calling for the production of books, documents and objects, and offences by witnesses.
apply with the necessary changes.

Determinations by Ombud

S

28. ( 1 ) TheOmbud must in any casewhere amatter has not been settled or a
recommendation referred to in section 27(5)(c)has not been accepted by all parties
concerned, make a final determination, which may include( a ) the dismissal of the complaint; or
( b ) the upholding of the complaint, wholly or partially, in which caseIO
(i) the complainant may be awarded an amount as fair compensation for any
financial prejudice or damage suffered;
(ii) a direction may be issued that the authorised financial services provider.
representative or other party concerned take such steps in relation to the
15
complaint as the Ombud deems appropriate and just;
(iii) the Ombud may make any other order which a Court may make.
(2) ( aj A monetaryaward may provide for the amountpayable to bearinterest at a rate
and as from a date determined by the Ombud.
( b )The Board may by rule determine(i) the maximum monetary award for a particular kind of financial prejudice or 20
damage:
(ii) different maximum monetary awards for different categories of complaints;
(iii) the granting of costs, including costs against a complainant in favour of the
Office or the respondent if in the opinion of the Ombud(aa) the conduct of the complainant was improper or unreasonable: or
35
(bb) the complainant wasresponsible for an unreasonabledelay
in the
finalisation of the relevant investigation:
Provided that an amount payable under a cost award bears interest
at a rate and
as from a date determined by the Ombud.
(3) Any award of interest by the Ombudin terms of subsection (2) may not exceed the 30
rate which a Court would have been entitled to award, had the matter been heard by a
court.
(4) ( a )The Ombud must reduce a determination to writing, including all the reasons
therefor. sign the determination, and send copies thereof to the registrar and all parties
concerned with the complaint and,if no notice of appeal to the board of appeal has been 35
lodged within the period required therefor, to the clerk or registrar of court which would
have had jurisdiction in the matter had it been heard by a Court.
( b )Where a noticeof appeal has been lodged, the Ombud must send a copyof the final
decision of the board of appeal to any such clerk or re,'wtrar.
30
( 5 ) A determination( a ) or a final decision of the board of appeal, as the case may be, is regarded as a
civil judgment of a Court. had the matter in question been heard by a Court.
and must be so noted by the clerk or registrar, as the case may be, of that
court;
(b) is only appealable to the board of appeal35
(i) with the leave of the Ombud after taking into consideration(aa) the complexity of the matter; or
(bh) thereasonablelikelihood
that theboard of appeal may reacha
different conclusion; or
(ii) if the Ombudrefusesleave
to appeal, with thepermission of the S O
chairperson of the board of appeal.
(6) ( a )A writ of execution may, in thecase of a determination or a final decisionof the
board of appeal amounting to a monetary award. be issued by the clerk or the registrar
referred to in subsection (3) and may be executed by the sheriff of such Court after
expiration of a period of two weeks after the date of the determination or of the final 5s
decision of the board of appeal, as the case may be.
( b )Any other determination must be given effect to in accordance with the applicable
procedures of a Court after expiration of a period of two weeks after the date of the
determination or of the final decision of the board of appeal.

44

No. 21079

Act No. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

15 NOVEMBER 2001

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

Record-keeping
29. (1) The Ombudmust keep proper files and records in respectof complaints as well
as a record of any determination proceedings conducted in terms of section 28.
( 2 )The registrar has, for the purposes of the performance of the registrar's functions
under this or any other law, access to the Ombud's files and records and may without
further proof rely on a copy of any record of proceedings signed by the Ombud.
(3) Any interested person may, subject to the discretion of the Ombud and applicable
rules of confidentiality, obtain a copy of any record on payment of a fee determined by
the Ombud.
Report of Ombud

5

10

30. (1) The Ombud must during every year, within six months after the end of the
financial year of the Ombud, submita report to theBoard on the affairs and functions of
the Ombud duringthefinancialyear
in question.includingtheannualfinancial
statements referred to in section 23(2)(6).
( 2 )The Ombud must at the same time submit a copy of the report to the Minister.
15
Penalties
31. Any person who( a ) commits any act in respect of the Ombud or an investigation by the Ombud
which, if committed in respect of a court of law, would have constituted
contempt of court, is guilty ofan offenceandliable on conviction to any 20
penalty which may be imposed on a conviction of contempt of court: or
(6) (i) anticipates a determination of theOmbud in anymannercalculated to
influence the determination: or
(ii) wilfully interrupts any proceedings conducted by the Ombud.
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine or to imprisonment for a period 25
not exceeding one year.
Promotion of client education by registrar
32. The registrar may take any steps conducive toclient education and the promotion
of awareness of thenature and availability of the Ombud andotherenforcement
measures established by or in terms of this Act, includingarrangements with the Ombud. 30
representative bodies of the financial services industry. client and consumer bodies. or
product suppliers and authorisedfinancial services providers and their representativesto
assist in the disclosure of information tothe general public on matters dealt with in this
Act.
PART ZZ

35

Other enforcement measures

Civil remedies
33. (1) The registrar may, when satisfied on thebasis of available facts and
information that a person has contravened or not complied with any provision of this
Act, or is likely so tocontraveneor not to comply. apply to aCourt for an order 30
restraining such person from continuing to commit any such act or omission or from
committing it in future, and requiring the personto take such remedial steps as the Court
deems necessary to rectifythe
consequences of the act or omission.including
consequences which prejudiced or may prejudice any client.
( 2 ) The registrar may instituteaction in a Courtagainstany
person who has 35
contravened or not complied with any provision of this Act, for payment of(a) an amount determined by the Court as compensation for losses suffered by
any other person in consequence of such contravention or non-compliance;

46

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

No. 34079

Act No. 37,2002

15 NOVEMBER 7002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARY SERVICES
ACT. 2002

(6) a penalty for punitive purposes in a sum determined in the discretion of the
Court but not exceeding three times the amount of any profit or gain which
may have accrued to the person involved as a direct result of any such act or
omission;
(c) interest;and
(dl costs of suit on such scale as may be determined by the Court.
(3) Any amountrecovered by the registrarinterms
of subsection (2) must be
deposited by the registrar directly into a specially designated trust account established
by the registrar with an appropriate financial institution, and thereupon( a ) the registrar is, as a first charge against the trust account,entitled
to
reimbursement of all expenses reasonably incurred in bringing proceedings
under subsection (2) and in administering the distributions made to persons in
terms of subsection (5);
(b) thebalance, if any (hereinafter referred to as the“distributable balance”)
must be distributed by the registrar to the persons referred to in subsection (5).
any fundsremaining, accruing to theregistrar in the registrar’s official
capacity.
(4) Any amount not claimed within three years from the date of the first disrribution
of payments, accrues to theregistrar in the registrar’s official capacity.
(5) The distributable balance must be distributed on a pro rata basis to all persons who
are affected by the occurrences referred to in subsection ( 2 ) . and whoprove to the
reasonablesatisfaction of the registrarthat they arepersonscontemplated
in that
subsection: Provided that no money may be distributedto a person who has contravened
or failed to comply with any provision of this Act.
(6) A Court issuing any order under this section must order it to be published in the
Go;erre and by such other appropriatepublicmediaannouncementastheCourt
considers appropriate.
(7) The registrar may withdraw, abandon or compromise any civilproceedings
instituted under this section. but any agreement or compromise must be made an order
of Court and the amount of any payment made in terms of any such compromise must
be published in the Gazerre and by such other public media announcement as the Court
considers appropriate.
(8)Where civil proceedings havenot been instituted. any agreement 01- settlement (if
any) may, on application to the Court by the registrar after due notice to the other party.
be made an order of Court and must be published in the Gnzetre and by such other public
media announcement as the Court considers appropriate.

Undesirable practices
34. ( I ) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the registrar may. after consultation with the
Advisory Committee, by notice in the Gazette declare a particular business practice to
be undesirable for all or a category of authorised financial services providers. or any
such provider.
(2) The following principles must guide the registrar in considering whether or not a
declaration contemplated in subsection (1) should be made:
( a ) That the practice concerned, directly or indirectly. has or is likely to have the
effect of(i) harming the relations between authorised financial services providers or
any category of such providers, or any such projider. and clients or the
general pubhc;
(ii) unreasonablyprejudicing any client;
(iii) deceiving any client; or
(iv) unfairly affecting any client; and
Ib) that if the practice is allowed to continue, oneor more objects of this Act will.
or is likely to, be defeated.
(3) The registrar may not make such a declaration unlessthe registrar has by notice in
the Gazette published an intention to make the declaration, giving reasons therefor. and
invited interested persons to makewritten representations thereanent so as to reach the
registrar within 2 1 days after the date of publication of that notice.
(4) The authorised financial services provider concernedmay not, on or after the date
of the publication of a notice referred to in subsection ( l ) , carry on the business practice
concerned.

18

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVlCES
ACT, 2002

( 5 )The registrar may direct an authorised financial services provider who, on or after
thedate of the publication of a notice referred to insubsection(1).carries
on the
business practice concerned in contravention of that notice, to rectify or reinstate to the
satisfaction of the registrar any loss or damagewhich was caused by or arose out of the
5carrying
concerned.
practice
business
on of the
(6) An authorised financial services provider concerned who is under subsection ( 5 )
directed to rectify or reinstate anything, must do so within 60 days after suchdirection
is issued.

Regulations

35. ( 1 ) The Minister may by notice in the Gazerre, after consultation with the registrar 10
and the Advisory Committee. make regulations relating t o ( a ) any matter which is required or permitted to be prescribed under this Act;
(6) aprohibition on(i) canvassing for. or marketing or advertising (whether within or outside
the Republic) of anybusinessrelating
to therendering of financial 15
services by anypersonwho
is not an authorisedfinancial services
provider or a representative of such a provider;
(ii) the publication by any person, who is not an authorised financial services
provider or a representative of such a provider, of any advertisement,
communication or announcement directed to clients and which indicates 20
that suchperson
is an authorisedfinancialservicesprovider
or a
representative of such a provider: and
(iii) the use by any person who is not an authorised financial provider or a
representative of any such provider, of any name, title or designation
indicating that the person is an authorised financial services provider or 25
a representative of such a provider;
(c) compliance arrangements, compliance monitoringsystemsandkeeping
of
records;
(dl powers of the registrar to call for information from any person to which this
Act applies, including the powers of the Court to issue orders, on application 30
by the registrar. tso enforce obligations in that regard: and
( e ) generally, any matter which it is expedient or necessary to prescribe for the
better achievement of the objects of this Act. the generality of this provision
not being restricted by the provisions of any foregoing paragraph.
(2) The regulations may providefor
offences in cases of contravention or 35
non-compliance with the pl:ovisions thereof, and for penalties not exceeding a fine of
R500 000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years or to both such fine and
such imprisonment.
( 3 ) Different regulations ]may be made in respect of different matters or categoriesof
persons.
40
Offences and penalties
36. Any person w h o ( a ) contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of section 7( 1). 8(8), 13( 1).
14(1), 18, 19(2) or 34(4) or (6): or
( b ) in any application in terms of this Act, deliberately makes a misleading, false 45
or deceptive statement, or conceals any material fact,
is guilty of an offenceand is on conviction liable toa fine not exceeding R1 000 000 or
to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years, or to both such fine and such
imprisonment.
quantum
Consideration
of

of50
penalties
fines and

37. (1) In the consideration of the quantum of any penalty under section36, the Court
must take into consideration any award made or to be made under section 33, from the
same cause.

SO

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

No. 24079

Act No. 37.2002

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

(2) In the consideration of the quantum of any award under section 33. the Courtmust
take into accountany penalty imposed or tobe imposed under section 36, from the same
cause.

Voluntary sequestration, winding-up and closure

38. N o ( a ) application for the acceptanceof the voluntary surrender of the estate. in terms

5

of section 3 of the Insolvency Act, 1936 (Act No. 24 of 1936). of;
( b ) special resolution relating to the winding-up, as contemplated in section 349
of the Companies Act, 1973 (Act No. 61 of 1973), and registered in terms of
that Act. of;
10
(c) written resolution relating to the winding-up, as contemplated in section 67 of
the Close Corporations Act, 1984 (Act No. 69 of 1984). and registered in
terms of that section. of; and
(dl voluntary closure of business by,
any authorised financial services provider, or representative of such provider, and no 1s
special resolution in terms of the constitution of such a provider orrepresentative which
is not a company, to close its business, have legal force(i) unless a copy or notice thereof has been lodged with the registrar and the
registrar has, by notice to the provider or representative concerned. as the case
may be, declared that arrangements satisfactory to the registrar have been 10
made to meet all liabilities under transactionsentered into with clients priorto
sequestration, winding-up or closure, as the casemay be: or
(ii) if the registrar. by notice to the provider or representative concerned, as the
case may be, declares that the application, resolution or closure, as the case
may be, is contrary to this Act.
15

Right of appeal
39. Any person who feels aggrieved by any decision by the registrar or the Ombud
under this Act which affects that person, may appeal to theboard of appeal established
by section 26(1 ) of the Financial Services Board Act, in respect of which appeal the said
section 26 applies with the necessary changes.
30
CHAPTER VI1
MISCELLANEOUS
Saving of rights
40. No provision of this Act, and no act performed under or in terms of any such
provision, may be construed as affecting any right of a client, or other affected person, 35
to seek appropriate legal redress interms of common law or any other statutory law, and
whether relating to civil or criminal matters. in respect of the rendering of any financial
service by an authorised financial services provider, or representative of such provider,
or any act of a person who is not an authorisedfinancialservicesprovider
or a
representative of such a provider.
30

Fees and penalties
41. (1) ( a ) The Minister must, after consultation with the registrar, by notice in the
Gazette, determinethefees
payable to the registrar by anyperson, or category of
persons, seeking a decision or the performance of any other act by the registrar under
this Act and referred to in section 3( 1).
45
( b ) Thefees are payablein the manner,andaresubject
to the requirements,
determined by the registrar by notice in the Gazette.
(2) ( a ) A person who fails to furnishtheregistrarwitha
return. information or
document, as provided by this Act, within the period specified or any extension thereof.
is, irrespective of any criminal proceedings instituted against the person under this Act. SO

52

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE. 15 NOVEMBER 2002

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

FINANCIAL ADVISORY ANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

but subject to paragraph (b), liable to a penalty not exceeding R1 000 or any greater
amount prescribed, for everyday during which the failure continues,
unless theregistrar.
on good cause shown, waivesthe penalty or any part thereof.
(b) The penalty may be imposed by the registrar by notice to the person concerned.
and such imposition must be preceded by a procedure giving such person a reasonable 5
opportunity to be heard. and takes effect on a date specified in such notice which may be
a date prior to the date of the notice.
(3) ( a ) A person who is liable topay the fees ora penalty contemplated in subsection
(I)(a)or (2)(a).respectively, and who fails to paythe amount due on the date or within
the period specified, must pay interest on the amount outstanding and on unpaid interest 10
at such rate. and calculated in such manner asmay be determined by the Minister from
time to time in respect of debts due to the state.
( b ) The feesand penalties, and interest owed in respect thereof. are regarded as debts
due to the Board and may be recovered by the Board in a Court.

Exchange of information

15

42. The registrar may discloseinformationobtained in thecourse of performing
functions in terms of this Act, unless such disclosure will not be in the public interest.
but subject to any guidelines issued by the Board to the registrar(a) to any department of state or organ of state as defined in section 239 of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act No. 108 of 1996). 20
foreign financial or investment services regulatory or supervisory authority. or
anyotherregulatory
or supervisoryauthorityforfinancial
or investment
services in the Republic. including the Registrar of Medical Schemes and a
representativebody
of thefinancialservicesindustry
or self-regulatory
organisationapproved by the Board, if such information is likely to be of 25
interest to the relevant department ororgan of state, regulatory or supervisory
authority.Registrar
of MedicalSchemes.representative
body or selfregulatory organisation; or
(b) to any foreignfinancial or investment servicesregulatory or supervisory
authority, wherethe information is required in terms of any agreement. 30
communiquk or memorandum of understanding concluded by the Board or
the registrar with any such authority:
Provided that the Board or the registrar may impose conditions relating to the use of any
information and the preservation of confidentiality in respect thereof.

Limitation of liability

35

43. The Minister. the Board or a member thereof,any officeror employeeassisting the
Board, the registrar, the Advisory Committee or any member thereof, the Ombud and
any employee in the Office of the Ombud, or other body or person performing any
function in terms of this Acl., is not liable for any loss sustained by or damagecaubed to
any person as a result of anything done or omitted by any of them in the bona fide 40
exercise of any power or carrying outof any duty or performance of any function under
or in terms of a provision of this Act.

Exemptions by registrar and Minister
44. (1 ) The registrar may on or after the commencement of this Act, but prior to the
date determinedby the Ministerin terms of section 7( I), exempt any person or category 45
of persons from the provisions of that section if the registrar is satisfied that(a) the rendering of any financial service by the applicant is already partially or
wholly regulated by any other law; or

GOVERNMENT
54
23079
GAZETTE.
No.
~

~

IS XOVEMBEK
2002

~~

Act No. 37,2002

~~~~~

~

~

FINANCL4L ADVISORY AND INTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

( b ) the application of the said section to the applicant will cause the applicant or
clients of the applicant financial or other hardship or prejudice: and
( c ) the granting of the exemption will not(i) conflict with the public interest;
(ii) prejudice the interests of clients; and
(iii) frustrate the achievement of the objects of this Act.
( 2 )The registrar( a ) having regard to the factors mentioned in subsection (1). may attach to any
exemption so granted reasonable requirements or impose reasonable conditions with which the applicant must complyeither before or after the effective
date of the exemption in the manner and during the period specified by the
registrar: and
(b) must determine the period for which the exemption will be valid.
(3) An exemption in respect of which a person has to comply with requirements or
conditions, lapses whenever the person contravenes or fails to comply with any such
requirement or condition: Provided that the registrar may on application condone any
such contravention or failure and determine reasonable requirements or conditions with
which the applicant must comply on or after resumption of the exemption as if such
requirements or conditions had been attached or imposed on the first granting of the
exemption.
(4) ( a ) The registrar may in any case not provided for in this Act. on reasonable
grounds. on application or on the registrar’s own initiative by notice in the Gazetrr.
exempt any person or category of persons from any provision of this Act.
( b )The provisions of subsections ( I ) , (2) and (3) apply with the necessary changes in
respect of any exemption contemplated in paragraph (a).
(5) The Minister. after consultation with the registrar, may. on such conditions as the
Minister may determine, by notice in the Gazetre exempt a financial seryices provider or
representative, or category of financial services providers or representatives. from any
provision of the Policyholder Protection Rules madeunder section 62 of the Lon,“-term
Insurance Act. 1998 (Act No. 52 of 1998), and section 55 of the Short-term Insurance
Act, 1998 (Act No. 53 of 1998). respectively.

Exemptions, and amendment or repeal of laws
35. ( 1 ) The plovisions of this Act do not apply to the rendering of financial services
by( a ) (i) any “authorised user”,“clearinghouse”,
“centralsecuritiesdepository” or “participant” as defined in section I of the Securities Services
Act. 2002, or exchange licensed under section 10 of that Act;
(ii) a manager as defined in section 1 of the Collective Investment Schemes
Control Act, 2002;
(iii) a person performingthe functions referred to in section 13B of the
Pension Funds Act, 1956 (Act No. 24 of 1956). if such person complies
with the requirements and conditions contemplated in that section: or
(iv) a person carrying on the businessreferred to in section 58 of the Medical
Schemes Act. 1998 (Act No. 131 of 1998). if such person complies with
the requirements contemplated in that section,
to the extent that the rendering of financial services is regulated hy or under
those Acts, respectively;
Ib) (i) the executor. administrator or trustee of any deceased or insolvent estate.
or a person acting on behalf of such executor. administrator or trustee;
(ii) the curator of a person under curatorship, or a person acting on behalf of
such curator;
(iii) the liquidator or judicial manager of a company in liquidation or under
judicial management, or a person acting on behalf of such liquidator or
judicial manager;

(iv) the trustee of an inter vivos trust as definedinsection 1 of the Trust
Property Control Act, 1988 (Act No. 57 of 1988), not being a business
trust createdforthepurpose
of profit-malungachievedthrough
the
combination of capital contributed by the beneficiaries of the trust and
through the administration or management of the capital by trustees on 5
behalf of and for the benefit of the beneficiaries, or a person acting on
behalf of siuch first-mentioned trustee;
(v) the parent, tutor or guardian of a minor, or a person acting on behalf of
such parent, tutor or guardian,
unless the financialservices are rendered as aregularfeature of any such 10
person's business; or
fc) any other trustee or custodian appointed under any law to the extent that the
rendering of such services is regulated by or under suchlaw.
( 2 ) f a ) The law referred to in item I of the Schedule ishereby amended to the extent
indicated in the
column
fourth
Schedule.
of the
15
(6) The laws referred to
in item I1 of the Schedule arehereby, with effect from the date
determined in terms of section 7( 11, amended orrepealed to the extentindicated in the
fourth column of the Schedule: Provided that any unconcluded business
of any financial
servicesprovider in terms of such law onthatdate may be concludedwithin the
prescribedperiodas
if any suchamendmentor
repeal has not taken effect.
20
(3) Until such time as the Collective Investment Schemes
Control Act, 2002, referred
to in sections 1(1 ) and 45( 1)(a)(ii) of this Act comes intooperation, any reference in this
Act to( a ) a collective investment scheme and manager mustbe construed as references
to a unit trust scheme and management company, and scheme and manager, 25
referred to in the Unit Trusts Control Act, 1981 (Act No. 54 of 198 1). and the
Participation Bonds Act, 1981 (Act No. 55 of 1981), respectively; and
( h ) any word or expression defined in the Unit Trusts Control Act, 198 1. and the
Participation Bonds Act, 1981, unless clearly inappropriate
or inconsistent
with
Act, this
meaning
has the
so defined.
30
(4) Until such time as the Securities Services Act, 2002, referred to in sections 1 ( 1 )
and 45( 1 )(a)(i) of this Act comes intooperation. any reference in this Act to( a ) an authorised user, exchange, a clearing house, central securities depository
and participant, mustbe construed as references toa member, stockexchange,
clearing
house.
financial exchange, recognised
clearing
house,central
35
securitiesdepositoryanddepositaryinstitutionreferred
to in the Stock
Exchanges ControlAct, 1985 (Act No. 1 of 1985), Financial Markets Control
Act, 1989 (Act No. 55 of 1989), and Custody and
Administration of Securities
Act, 1992 (Act No. 85 of 1992), respectively; and
(b) any word or expression defined in the Stock Exchanges Control Act, 1985, 40
Financial Markets Control Act. 1989, and Custody and Administration of
Securities Act, 1992, unless clearly inappropriate orinconsistent with this Act,
has the meaning SO defined.

Commencement and short title
46. This Act is called the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, 45
and comesinto operation on a date fixed by the President by proclamationin the
Gazette.

GENERAL EXPLANATORY NOTE:
[

I

j”Jords in bold
type
in square brackets
indicate
existing enactments.

omissions from

Wordsunderlinedwithasolidlineindicateinsertions
existing enactments.

in

SCHEDULE
LAWS AMENDED OR REPEALED

(Section 45)

WMBER AND^ HORT TITLE
(EAR
IF LAW
4ct No. 97 of 1990 ;inancia1 Services
3oard Act, 1990

k t No. 1 of 1 9 6 hock

SXTENT OF AMENDMENT OR
=PEAL
rhe amendment of section 1 by the
iddition of the following subpara:raph to paragraph ( a ) of the definiion of “financial institution”:
“(xii) any‘authorisedfinancial
services provider’or‘representative’ as defined in
section 1 (1) of the Financial Advisory andIntennediary
Services
Act.
2001;”.

Exchanges
1. The amendment of section 4
:ontrol Act, 1985 )y thea) substitution for subsection ( I )
of the following subsection:
“( 1) No member may. as a
regularfeature of thebusiness of themember. undertakethe management of investments on behalf of
another person. and for such
management receive any remuneration
in
whatever
form, unless thememberis
authorised to do SO in terms
of the rules.”; and
(b) deletion of subsections(1A).
(21, (31, (4), (51, (6) and (7Xc).
2. The amendment of section 12
by the substitution for paragraph (d,
of subsection (1) of the following
paragraph:
“ ( d ) that(i) a member carries on a
business contemplated
in section 4( 1) in accordance with the provisions of the rules; and

ACT. 2002

WMBER
llEAR
IF LAW

ANIS SHORT TITLE

EXTENT OF AMENDMENT OR
REPEAL
(ii) a member may not effect a transaction with a
person whom the member reasonably believes
requires
authorisation
as afinancialservices
provider or the statusof
a representative in
terms of theFinancial
Advisory
andIntermediary
Services
Act,
2001,
without
having
takenreasonablemeasures to ascertain that
such person has the required authorisation or
status.”.
3. The amendment of section 39
)y the deletion of subsections
(2),
‘2A) and (2B).
4. Theamendment
of section
45( a ) by the deletion of subparagraph
(iii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (1);
Ib) by thedeletionofthe
word
“or” at theend of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) 01
subsection ( l ) , and of subparagraph (iii)of the said paragraph
(b);
IC) by the substitution for the words
following on subparagraph (iii)
of paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) of the following words:
“but who is carrying on the
business of a stock exchange
or of a member, [or of a
person requiring approval
in terms of section 41 as the
case may be; and”.
5. The amendment of section 47
by the deletion of paragraph (b) of
subsection (1).
6. The amendment of section 48
by the substitution for paragraph( a ,
of subsection (1) ofthefollowing
paragraph:
“ ( a ) contravenes a provision of
section 3( 1) or ( 2 ) , 4( l)[or
(2)] or 14;”.

62

GOVERNMENT
No, 24079
GAZETTE.

Act NO. 37,2002

I C NOVEMBER 2001-

FINANCIAL
ADVISORY
AND
INTERMEDIARY
SERVICES
ACT, 2002

[TEM VUMBER AND SHORT TITLE
YEAR
- 3F LAW

.

SXTENT OF AMENDMENT OR
tEPEAL

7. The substitution of the followng heading and subsection for the
leading and subsection (1) of secion 50:
“Powers of courtodeclare
member, officer or employee of
member disqualified

50. (1) If a court( a ) convicts a member 0’ an
officer or employee of a
member[orapersonapproved in terms of section
41 underthis Act or of an
offence of which any dishonest act or omission is an
element; or
(b) finds, in proceedings to
which a member 0’ an officer
or employee of a member [a
personapprovedinterms
of section 4 or such person’s
officer o r employee] is a
party or in which [his] such
member’s. officer’s or employee’s conduct is called in
question. that [he] such member. officer or employee has
been guilty of dishonest conduct,
thecourt may (in addition, in a
case referred to in paragraph ( a ) ,
to any sentence it may impose)
declare that member. officer or
employee of a member [person
or such person’s officer or employee] to be disqualified. for an
indefinite period or for a period
specified by the court. from carrying on the business of a member or from being an officer or
employee of a member, [or from
carryingonthebusinessreferred to in section 41 as the case
may be.”.

6.1

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

I5 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT. 2002

UMBER AND SHORT TITLE
EXTENT OF AMENDMENT OR
EAR
REPEAL
IFLAW
ct No. 55 of 19% Financial Markets
1. The amendment of section 5Control Act, 1989 ‘a) by the substitution for subsection (1) of the following subsection:
“(I) No member may, as a
regular feature of thebusiness of the member, undertake the management of investments
on
behalf of
another person. and for such
management receive any remuneration in whateve]
form, unless the member is
authorised to do so in terms
of the rules.“: and
(b) by the deletion of subsection:
(]A), (2), (31, (4). ( 5 ) . (6) and
(7)(c).
2. The amendment of sectior
1 7( a ) by thesubstitution in subsection (1) for paragraph ( d C ) 01
the following paragraph:
“(dC) that a member cames
on a business contemplated in sectior
5( I ) in accordance
with the provision:
of the rules;”: and
(b) by the substitution in subsectior
(1) for paragraph (IB) of the
following paragraph:
“(IB) that nomember ma:
effect a transactio1
with a person who thl
member reasonabl:
require
believes
authorisation as a fi
nancialservices
pro
vider or the status of
representative
il
terms of the Financia
Advisory and Inter
mediary Services Act
2001, withouthavin;
taken reasonable mea
sures to ascertain tha
such person hasth,
required authorisatio~
or status;”.
3. The amendment ofsection 211
by thedeletion of subsections (2:

GOVERNMENT
66
24079
GAZETTE.
No.

IS NOVEMBER
2002
~~

Act No. 37,2002

FlNANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

TEM WMBER
fEAR
IF LAW

AND iHORT TITLE

:XTENTOFAMENDMENT OR
LEPEAL
4. The amendment of section

6a ) by the deletion in subsection (1 )
of subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (a);
b) by the deletion of the word “or”
at the end of subparagraph (ii)
of paragraph (b) of subsection
(l), and of subparagraph (iii) of
the said paragraph (h):and
c) by the substitution for the words
following on subparagraph (iii)
of paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) of the following words:
“but who is carrying on the
business of a financial exchange % of a member [or of
a person requiring approval in terms of section
51: and”.
5. The amendment of section 28
’y the deletion of paragraph (c).
6. The amendment of section
!9a ) by thesubstitution
for paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of
the following paragraph:
“ ( b ) directa financial exchange
or a member thereof or a
recognizedclearing
house
[or a person approved in
terms of section 51 to take
any other steps. or to refrain
from performing orcontinuing any act, in order to
terminate or to obviate any
undesirable practice or state
of affairs brought to light by
the inspection.”: and
‘b) by thesubstitution forsubsection ( 2 ) of the following subsection:

68

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE.

No. 24079

TEM JUMBER
[EAR
IF LAW

AND SHORT TITLE

15 KOVEMBER 2002

CXTENT OF AMENDMENT OR
lEPEAL

“(2) A financial exchange or
a member thereof or a recognized clearing house [or a person approved in terms of
section 51 shall upon receipt of
a request in writing by the
Registrar to that effect immediately discontinue the publication or the issue of any advertisement, brochure, prospectus
or similar documentrelating to
financial instruments specified
in therequestwhich
is not a
correct statement of fact or is
objectionable, or effect such
adjustments thereto as the Registrar deems fit.” .
7. The substitution of the followng section for section 30:
“Evidence
30. A record purporting to have
been made orkept in the ordinary
course of the carrying on of the
business of a financial exchange
or the businessof a member, or of
a recognizedclearinghouse
[or
the business of a person approved in terms of section 51 01
a copy of or an extract from such
record certified to be correct by
the public prosecutor. shall on its
mere production by the public
prosecutor in anycriminalproceedings under thisAct. any othel
law or the common law againsl
the person who carries or carriec
on the businessin question or an)
otherperson, be admissible ir
evidence and be
prinzufucie prool
of thefacts contained in suck
record, copy or extract.”.
8. The substitution of the follow.
ing heading and subsection for thc
heading and subsection (1) of sec
lion 3 1 :

70

KO.24079

Act NO.37,2002

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE, 15 NOVEh4BER 2002
FINANCIALADVISORYANDINTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

JUMBER
AND
(EAR
IF LAW

iHORT TITLE

:XTENT OF AMENDMENT OR
lEPEAL
“Power of court to declare
member or officer or employee
of member disqualified

31. (1) If a court( a ) convicts a member or officer
or employee of a member [or
a person approved in terms
of section 51 of an offence
underthis Act or of an offence of which any dishonesl
act or omission is an element:
or
( b ) finds, in proceedings tc
which a member or officer 01
employee of a member [or a
personapprovedinterms
of section 5 or such person’!
ofEcer oremployee]is
:
party or in which such mem.
ber‘s officer’s
employee‘!
[or
person’s]
conduct i:
called in question, that suck
member, officer g employec
[or person] has been guilt)
of dishonest conduct,
the court may (inaddition. in i
case referred to in paragraph ( ( 1
to anysentence it may impose
declare that member, officer o
employee of a member [or per
son or such person’s officer 01
employee] to be disqualified. fo
an indefinite period or for a pe
nod specified by the court, fron
carrying on thebusiness
of ;
member or from being an office
or employee of a member [o
from carrying on the busines
referred to in section 51. as thl
case may be.”.

12

No. 24079

Act No. 37,2002

GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE,

15 NOVEMBER 2002

FINANCIALADVISORY A N D INTERMEDIARYSERVICES
ACT, 2002

iHORT TITLE
OF LAW
;I (c) Act No. 140 of )rugs
and
Drug
kafficking
Act,
11992
1992

I

I

L

EXTENT OFAMENDMENT OR
REPEAL
1. The amendment of section 10
by the substitution in subsection (3)
for paragraphs (a) and (6) of the
following paragraphs:
“ ( a ) any stock-broker as defined in
section ,1 of theStock
Exchanges
Control
Act,
198.5
(Act No. 1 of 1985) [or any
person contemplated in
paragraph (d), (e) or cf) of
section 4(1) of that Act]; or
(b) anyfinancialinstrumenttrader
asdefined in section 1 of the
Financial Markets Control Act,
1989 (Act No. 5.5 of 1989) [or
anyperson contemplated in
paragraph N, W, or (h) of
section 5(1) of that Act].”.

